---
title: How to Stop Overthinking at Night So You Can Sleep
date: 2022-03-15 00:00:00 Z
intro: Racing thoughts, stress from the day, and anxiety about tomorrow are all common reasons why you may find yourself  staying awake at night. Overthinking is a common trap that almost everyone finds themselves falling into, especially  when the rest of the world is asleep. Thankfully there are some things you can do to ease your mind and relax.
outlines: "Why Some People Overthink at Night \nTalk to Someone You Trust \nJournal \nMeditate \nPractice Breathing Exercises \nWrite Your To-Do List \nWalk It Out \nTurn off the Screens \nSet Up a Relaxing Environment \nStop Telling Yourself That You’re Overthinking \nKnow When to Get Support \nOther Ways to Prevent Overthinking at Night \nConclusion \n"
---

## Why Some People Overthink at Night

In today’s fast-paced world, most people are overstimulated and rushed from one thing to the next. We don’t really have  time to process everything, which is one reason why overthinking at night is so common. Your brain pretty much goes into overdrive trying to make sense of everything from the noises, smells, sights, and anything you experienced during the  day.
Add in external stressors like a hectic schedule, relationship problems, or financial worries and you have the perfect  storm for overthinking. Even internal stressors like negative self-talk or unrealistic standards for yourself can cause  you to overanalyze at night.     

There are some ways to clear your mind of racing thoughts and worry so that you can finally relax and fall asleep.     

### Talk to Someone You Trust

Sometimes just talking it out can clear your cluttered mind and help you process things more effectively. If you have a  friend you trust and who is open to hearing you out, try talking to them about what you’re thinking and feeling. Be sure  to let them know if you’re wanting advice or just want a listening ear.
If you don’t have anyone in your life to talk to or you’d rather discuss things with a professional, there are  convenient options like online therapy. Many of them let you message your therapist whenever you need to get something  off your chest, which can be really helpful.     

### Journal

LIke talking it out, journaling has its own benefits. You can write about what happened during your day, what’s worrying  you, or what you’re looking forward to. Whatever you need to get out of your head, write about it and see if it helps  or not.     

### Meditate

When you’re overthinking you’re either worried about the past or the future, but not the present moment. Meditation  helps bring your attention back to the here and now by chasing away your anxious thoughts. While there are many ways to  practice mediation, the easiest way to get started is to sit comfortably in silence, with your eyes shut, and focus on  one thing. It could be a word, an image, a sound, your breathing, or something else.
Intruding thoughts are normal, so instead of repressing them or feeling negatively towards them, just acknowledge each  one as if you were saying hello to it and then imagine it gets whisked away in the wind. Go back to what you were  focused on, and rinse and repeat for as long as you need. For more meditation ideas, read this post.     

### Practice Breathing Exercises

Breathing exercises are incredibly effective at relieving stress and calming the mind. Try out one or two at a time as  part of your nightly routine and even when you’re in bed. Something as simple as breathing in slowly for five seconds  and then releasing your breath out through your mouth for five more seconds can slow your thoughts.     

### Write Your To-Do List

If you’re experiencing anxiety around a specific project or what you have going on the next day, try writing it all out  as a to-do list. Getting it out of your head and onto paper can help you relax knowing that you won’t forget about it.  You can take it a step further and break down any of your projects (no matter how big or small) into digestible tasks so  they don’t seem so intimidating or keep you circling your thoughts.     

### Walk It Out

Sometimes the best thing to do for a racing mind is to walk it out. Moving your body gives you something else to focus  on while also tiring yourself out and helping your mind decompress. Exercise has been proven to improve sleep and reduce  insomnia but should be done a couple of hours before bedtime since it’s stimulating and increases heart rate.     

### Turn off the Screens

As tempting as it is to distract yourself with social media or TV, doing so will only give your brain more to process  and encourage overthinking. Plus, the blue light from the electronics has been proven to be disruptive to sleep. Prevent  insomnia by turning off the screens at least an hour before bed and choose a relaxing activity instead.     

### Set Up a Relaxing Environment

Having a calming environment where you feel cozy and safe can help your brain relax and ease your anxiety. Simple things  like using an essential oil diffuser, turning on a sound machine, and cuddling up with your favorite blanket can  prevent you from spinning out in worry.     

### Stop Telling Yourself That You’re Overthinking

As easy as it is to shame yourself for overthinking and going on about how you need to stop, it’s counterproductive. It  puts focus on what you want to stop doing (overthinking) which just makes it harder to overcome. Instead, choose to give  yourself grace and try some positive affirmations that put your mind at ease.     

### Know When to Get Support

If you’ve tried everything under the sun but still can’t seem to shut your brain off or calm down, try talking to your  doctor or a sleep expert. They may be able to identify underlying reasons for your insomnia and suggest some solutions.     

## Other Ways to Prevent Overthinking at Night

It’s important to accept that you can’t cure overthinking completely. As humans, we will always wonder about the what  if’s and have some level of anxiety about something. There are additional ways you can prevent overthinking at night,  though. 
- Implement a nightly relaxing bedtime routine that’s full of relaxing activities that help you decompress and transition to sleep 
- Learn how to get things off your mind in a healthy way and before they cause overthinking  
- Properly manage your stress throughout the day  
- Schedule in “worry time” where your only goal is to do a brain dump and then how you’ll address those things 
- Figure out what’s worth your worry and how to stop worrying about things that don’t matter 
- Find even more ways to relax your mind, slow your thoughts down, and how to stop overanalyzing everything

## Conclusion
Unfortunately overthinking is something you’ll experience at different points in life, especially during periods of high  stress. There are ways to calm your thoughts, though, so you can focus more on what really matters and actually get  some sleep.