---
title: How to Verify My Business on Google
date: 2022-03-15 00:00:00 Z
intro: Creating an online presence is more important for your business now more than ever. Creating a Google Business Profile (previously known as Google My Business) is one of the best ways to start creating and building your online presence. Once you’ve claimed your listing, then what? In this article, we will go over the different ways in which you can verify your business listing on Google.
There are a few ways in which you can verify your Google Business Profile. You can do it on your mobile device or computer with the following verification methods- postcard, phone call, or bulk verification. Let’s dive into the steps on Google Business Profile (or Google My Business) verification.   
outlines: "1) Create an Account and Claim Your Business \n2) Verify Your Business \nPostcard \nPhone \nBulk Verification \nWhat if Someone Else Has Already Verified My Account? \n1) Check Multiple Accounts \n2) Request Ownership Rights \nBottom line \n"
---

## 1) Create an Account and Claim Your Business

The first step is to find or add your business to a Google Business Profile. Until you claim your business profile, you are not able to edit information on that specific business profile. To create a listing, you must have a verified Google account. Be sure that your Google account is a business one and not a personal account. 
Once you have your account, you can then add your Google listing. You will start to go through the setup process and it will ask you to add your business name. It is very important that you make sure it is spelled correctly. If for some reason you make a mistake, you won’t be able to change it for a maximum of 14 days until you verify the business.
If you already have a listing, you can sign into your account and make sure you have claimed the business. There are two ways in which you can claim your business listing to your business account:
• Search for your business listing on Google Maps. Once you see it you will be able to click on “Own this business?” and claim your business through that. 
• You can search for the business on Google Business Profile and click the “manage now” button to claim it and edit it as your own business.      

## 2) Verify Your Business

This step is where you will be required to provide accurate business information. Your business information includes location specifics, business category specifics, and contact details. When you enter in all of your business information, it will ask you if you would like to complete the verification process. When you hit the “finish” button, it will let you know the next steps to fully verify your business.
It’s important to be aware that the verification method available to your business will depend on the type of business you manage. Here are a few of the ways in which you will be able to verify your account:     

### Postcard

One of the most popular ways is through receiving a postcard. Google will send a postcard with a verification code to the business address that was included in the listing. This is why it is extremely important to have the exact address entered correctly. The postcard should be delivered in 1-2 weeks.
During that time, it’s important not to make any edits or changes to your business information (or request a new code) until you have received the first one. You will also not be able to respond to reviews during this time frame so it is important to be patient when waiting for this postcard.
When you receive the postcard in the mail, you will then log into your Google Business Profile account, enter in the verification code, and be able to edit your business information if needed. If your postcard takes longer than 2 weeks, you can contact Google for assistance.     

### Phone

For some businesses there will be a phone verification option. For those who see this option, it is recommended that you use it for the fastest results. If you choose this option, Google will call the number provided in your business listing to confirm verification. If you do not see this option of verification, it’s best to stick with the postcard verification method.     

### Bulk Verification

If you’re a business owner that has multiple locations for the same business, you may be eligible to verify in bulk.     

## What if Someone Else Has Already Verified My Account?

Sometimes there are instances where another person or account has verified your business. While it may start to cause concerns, there is no need to worry right away. Here are a few ways in which you can work to solve this issue:     

### 1) Check Multiple Accounts

Sometimes it’s common to find that your business was verified under a different account you may own. It’s common for individuals to have multiple Google accounts such as a personal account, work account, or business account. The first thing you should do is check to see if your business was verified under one of these accounts.     

### 2) Request Ownership Rights

If you have checked through your multiple accounts and have found no verifications under any of them to your business, you will need to request ownership rights. There are 2 ways to request admin rights: - Contact Page Manager The first way is by contacting the page owner and asking them to add you as a page manager. By doing this, they can also transfer business ownership to you.
 Request Rights The second way (if for some reason you’re not able to contact the owner) you are able to request rights through Google Business Profile. You can log into your Google Business Profile account and find the business listing there. Once you find it, there should be an option to request rights to a business that might already be claimed. When you click on it, you will be asked to answer some verification questions and will then contact the owner to get in touch with you. From there they might automatically grant you access or contact you with further details on moving forward. If you have gone through this process and nothing has moved along, you can contact the Google Business Profile team for further assistance. 

## Bottom line

When you’re starting to build your small business, whether it be in person or online, there are countless steps your business needs to take to succeed. Verifying your firm on Google My Business is one of those important tasks you cannot afford to miss!