# How to Calculate and Improve Machine Availability

Keeping equipment running efficiently requires managing a dynamic balance in uptime, run time, fully productive time, and a myriad of other factors. Get it right, and a finished product can be produced at the lowest cost and highest efficiency. Get it wrong, and plant performance suffers from unplanned downtime, unplanned maintenance, and a high failure rate.

These variables are all part of machine availability. In all production environments, increasing availability to capture fully productive time is paramount to success.

## What is Machine Availability?

Machine availability is the total length of time a machine actually runs versus the time it was scheduled to run. The scheduled time is based on understanding available capacity, having the raw materials on hand in appropriate quantities, and having the staff and sales orders required to run.

Downtime can slow or stop the machine during this scheduled time. Total downtime includes preventive maintenance, changeovers, and other controlled, known variables. Unplanned downtime means breakage, quality fallout, jams, or other unpredicted stoppages.

For example, a machine could be scheduled to run for eight hours and only be active for six hours. In this case, the availability score for the machine is 75%.

All manufacturing operations should measure availability and downtime, taking into account the duration and reason for downtime. However, if this is tracked by hand, it is likely to be highly inaccurate, severely delayed, and far less actionable.

## The Function of Machine Availability

Machine availability is a basic but critical KPI in manufacturing. By measuring the time, duration, and reason for downtime, availability is used as an "anchor." Understanding availability, the utilization of particular equipment, and why it does – or doesn't – run helps compile other KPIs to optimize processes at the machine or plant level.

As data is captured for downtime, variables like maximum time, actual time, failure rate, and planned production time can directly impact how equipment performs against overall business objectives and how decisions are made by staff and management.

Machine availability is one of three KPIs used to determine Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE). The other two KPIs are performance and quality, which we'll discuss below. Each KPI has its own formula and helps manufacturers understand the efficiency of their operation while identifying processes that require optimization.

## What is the Calculation for Machine Availability?

Machine availability is calculated as:

Availability = Run Time / Planned Production Time

For example, if a machine runs for 8 hours, with 4 hours of downtime, during a 12-hour shift, then the availability for that machine is 66.6%.

One issue with calculating equipment availability through traditional means is that each instance must be recorded. This includes downtime, reason, and actual duration. This process assumes that operators, technicians, and managers correctly record each factor.

However, real-world applications indicate that frequency is erroneously recorded and reasons are subjective to the operator. Real-time machine data and analytics are a more accurate way to determine availability.

## How Can We Increase Machine Availability?

Machine availability is all about uptime. Increasing it means a broad application of best practices, culture change, and software. If unplanned downtime is high, a company will suffer availability losses. Likewise, if planned downtime is inefficient, equipment availability is lower.

Here are a few ways to increase overall availability:

Culture - Many operations believe that their OEE is much higher than it is. Because they've been operating with the same system, SOPs, and manually driven measurement tools, it's not unusual for managers to miss the mark by 20% or more. Increasing machine availability begins with a culture change. This requires managers to want to understand the available time for production and how their system needs to change to improve OEE. This change is usually a top-down decision driven by competitive pressures, costs, market volatility, and other factors.

Maintenance - A large portion of downtime is related to maintenance events. It's often unplanned, such as equipment repairs, spindle repair, tool breakage, or training. However, it may also be reflected in planned downtime when inefficient staging of parts, written procedures, tool organization, and other factors cause a repair to take longer than it should.

To reduce unnecessary downtime events from excessive maintenance, manufacturers can collect equipment data to better understand the performance and health of machines. However, doing this manually is not only time-consuming but results in delayed, inaccurate data.

Optimized Processes - Many downtime occurrences are related to inefficient SOPs, such as wait time due to WIP and staging issues. Or, less-than-optimal inventory management practices may drive time. As wait time for these causes grows, availability is reduced.

Training may also be a source of excessive downtime. If it takes an operator 14% longer to clear a jam and restart a machine than those on other shifts, a standardization of correct procedures will bring these times in line. With accurate data capture and analysis, managers can identify these problems by machine and shift to develop better SOPs or offer remedial training.

IIoT Platforms - While each of the above could be implemented to improve machine availability, they can all be achieved more effectively using the software. With real-time machine monitoring, factories can eliminate the effort and mistakes inherent to manual or fragmented data capture.

Using best-in-class edge devices, such as that from MachineMetrics, data is captured, structured, cleansed, and sent to the cloud-based analytics engine without compiling reports and entering data manually. By throwing away the clipboard, operators are empowered with rich visualizations that help contextualize data and offer actionable insights.

## Conclusion

Real-time machine status and performance analytics can help reduce planned and unplanned downtime. Data can be used to supercharge maintenance programs with condition-based maintenance that lowers costs and extends equipment life.

With access to these insights, managers and executives can quickly understand their true OEE and enact process improvement procedures that deal with unbiased, complete data.

Real-time data reduces the iterative nature of manual process improvements and allows operators and technicians to focus on running the equipment instead of being distracted with manual data capture and error-prone analysis.
