# The Top 5 Things to Know About Smart Manufacturing

Smart manufacturing is a powerful disruptive force with the potential to restructure the current competitive landscape and produce a new set of market leaders. Companies that are slow to adopt new technologies and processes could be left behind.

Read this article to learn strategic insights into the rise of smart factories, big data, the industrial internet of things (IIoT), and artificial intelligence. Each of these interconnected trends will help transform manufacturing as we know it.

## What Is Smart Manufacturing

Smart manufacturing is a broad concept; it is not something that can be implemented in a production process directly. It is a combination of various technologies and solutions which collectively if implemented in a manufacturing ecosystem, is termed smart manufacturing. We call these technologies and solutions "enablers," which help in optimizing the entire manufacturing process and thus increase overall profits.

Some of the prominent enablers in the current market scenario include - Artificial intelligence, Blockchain in manufacturing, Industrial Internet of things, Robotics, Condition monitoring, and Cyber security.

Companies are constantly investing and exploring how to obtain benefits through the implementation of enablers. If we closely look at enablers, then we will observe that they are either generating data, accepting data, or both. Data analysis will help in making the production process efficient, transparent, and flexible.

Smart manufacturing is all about harnessing data; data will tell us “what to do” and “when to do it.” Since smart factories are built around data, cyber security, above all, will play an important and significant role in the entire ecosystem of smart manufacturing. Data security is an important challenge while implementing these enablers.

Product and control solution providers include all the companies involved in the development of automation products and services. IT solution providers or enablers power the whole concept of IIoT and asset management. They help in building control, monitoring, and analytics infrastructures. Connectivity solution providers are telecom service providers that facilitate the smooth flow of data for asset management.

## The Implementation of IIoT

The industrial internet of things (IIoT) is nothing but an ecosystem where every device, machine, and/or process is connected through data communication systems. Each machine and piece of industrial equipment is embedded or connected with sensors that typically generate the relevant data. This is further transferred to the cloud/software systems through data communication systems. This huge amount of data has lots of insight which if analyzed may help in identifying certain dark areas within the production process. After the analysis of the data, it is sent as feedback to the production systems for any corrective action.

There is huge potential for IIoT in smart manufacturing. You cannot increase production beyond certain limits, so what do you do to increase your profits? You can’t increase production because there is no demand for that. So, you try to look at the backend process and make it efficient. Now, this is possible only when you have the precise details about your production process. This is where IIoT comes into the picture. Sensor generating data can be implemented at each process of production so that you can get the data, analyze it and take corrective action to increase the efficiency, thus increasing profitability.

## The Rise of Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing

The concept of artificial intelligence is old, but it is now finding applications in manufacturing ecosystems. In the last 5-6 years, there has been a tremendous increase in interest and investment regarding AI in manufacturing. This is mainly due to a few reasons, as AI will work only if the data is available, and it has only recently been possible to build the needed capability to - Generate huge amounts of data with low-cost sensors, Store data in low-cost systems, and Process data at affordable rates

These have collectively made it possible for AI to be implemented in manufacturing shop floors. Earlier manufacturing was being done by low-cost countries where it is very difficult to justify the high cost of implementation of AI in their manufacturing ecosystems.

Robotics with AI capability made it possible to involve perception-based decision making which otherwise was not possible by rule-based algorithms in robots. Predictive maintenance is another important aspect where AI finds significant application. Predictive maintenance enables the capability to determine performance, breakdown, and operating conditions of equipment or machine on a real-time basis.

The growing usage of big data technology, industrial IoT in manufacturing, extensive usage of robotics in manufacturing, computer vision technology in manufacturing, cross-industry partnerships and collaborations, and a significant increase in venture capital investments will propel the growth of the AI in manufacturing market.

## The Future of Blockchain in Manufacturing

Blockchain in manufacturing is still at a very nascent stage; however, it is a much-discussed new technology in manufacturing ecosystems. Currently, it is being implemented in financial systems, but companies are exploring its application in manufacturing.

Looking at the capabilities of blockchain, aviation, food & beverage, and medical are some of the industries which could greatly benefit from this technology. These industries, due to some stringent rules and regulations, require full scrutiny of all their suppliers across the value chain. Blockchain could help in maintaining quality control right from the development of raw materials. Currently, most of the attention is on the development of blockchain for supply chain functions across the manufacturing ecosystems.

Some of the industries that are actively developing blockchain include apparel, solar energy, mining, fishing, food & beverage, shipping (cargo transportation), fertilizer, healthcare, and aviation. The list is not exhaustive, and as the technology matures, more and more industries may get involved in implementing blockchain. Companies such as IBM, Microsoft, GE, Samsung, and Moog are involved in developing and implementing the blockchain in manufacturing ecosystems.

## Bottom line

The next thing that makes a typical manufacturing plant a smart manufacturing facility is the implementation of industrial robots. Industrial robots is not a new concept, it has been in the systems for the last 40-50 years. The only thing that has changed with respect to industrial robots is that they have now become intelligent. Earlier the robots were programmed to do one single task at a time. If you want to do other types of tasks, then you must change the codes.

Now robots are well connected with the sensor network implemented within the manufacturing shop floor, and they get the data from sensors and change their action accordingly. Artificial intelligence is also being slowly implemented in robotics systems, and thus it makes systems autonomous. Through AI, robotics systems are expected to change their actions according to the situation on a real-time basis.
