# Best DIY Home Decor Ideas: Living Room, Bedroom and Your Baby’s Room

Home is where the heart is. There is nothing like creating a space of solace where you can spend some quality “me time” as well as create your most precious family memories together.
In an era of social distancing and self-isolation where everyone is forced to spend their time at home, refreshing the ambiance around you could be good for the mind as well as the soul. Here are a few simple DIY home decor ideas as additions that would transform your home.
You don’t have to undertake a grand interior design project to give your home a makeover. All you have to do is to pick (according to your time, level of motivation, the material available, and budget) from these simple, quick, and easy DIY art and craft home decor ideas.
Make your living room, bedroom, your baby’s nursery, and pretty much every wall you can find!

## Living room decorating ideas

Let’s start with the living room where we spend most of our time together as a family. If you’re wondering how to decorate this room with simple things, look no further!
Let’s Begin with Some DIY Home Decor
Do you have a growing pile of old toilet rolls, tins, cartons, mason jars, plastic bags, and clothes lying around in your house? Start by rounding up all these scraps cluttering your home.
One of the ideal eco-friendly and budget-friendly things you could do is to upcycle these scraps and give them new life by turning them into DIY home decor – the possibilities are only as limited as your creativity and the availability of scraps taking up space in your house.
So, how can you turn old scraps into living room decor?
Metal tins, toilet rolls, bulbs, and cardboard boxes can all be easily refurbished into organizers of various sizes. With a little glue and twine, you can turn old boxes into beautiful baskets, and with just a nail and a hammer, you can turn your old metal tins into enchanting little lanterns.
Photo Frames
One great way to personalize and add character to the empty walls and table-tops in your living room is to use frames. And you can frame pretty much anything you love!
Photo calendars
Another handy way to make use of photo prints to create DIY home decor is to turn that otherwise-boring home calendar into something more personal. Create a photo calendar!

## Bedroom decorating ideas

At the end of the day, don’t you just love to retreat into our own space for some much-needed alone time? You can make your bedroom truly magical with a few simple bedroom design ideas.
Decorate your headboard
The star of your bedroom, your headboard space is the one thing that can make or break the personality of your room. You can simply nail a beautiful piece of fabric or a hand-painted canvas to the wall.
If you aren’t feeling particularly artistic, an alternative could also be sourcing a free art piece online and having it printed on canvas.
Handmade decorative items for bedroom
Do you have an old mason jar or a glass bottle lying around? Why not add some color and a few lights to make a great lantern for your bedside table? And if you are more a flower kind of person, you could also use them as handmade vases!
Photo collage
When it comes to home decor, a photo collage may seem cliché, but this simple bedroom wall design idea made of twine, photo prints, and lights is popular for a reason – it is unbelievably charming.

## Baby room decoration

So your little one is on the way, there’s nothing like a charming little nursery to greet your baby (and all the visitors)!
Whether it’s the crib, the wall decor, or an organizer for all the stuffed animals and an ever-increasing number of toys, here are a couple of newborn baby room decorating ideas.
Baby room decoration starts with the walls!
One of the go-to nursery ideas is posters. Whether you choose to create a simple gallery or have one massive wall poster over your baby’s crib, a few wall posters will do the trick of adding that nursery charm to the room you are redecorating.
Another good idea is to organize a baby photo shoot keeping in mind you’ll use these photos as a decor. Get creative with your photos!
Wooden crate DIY craft ideas
Refurbish old wooden crates and turn them into adorable organizers for your baby’s nursery.
Not only is it going to be almost as cute as your baby, but you would also no longer have to fret about books and toys making a mess!
Add a handmade rag-rug to the nursery floor.
Whether it’s your kitchen, the bathroom walls, the corridors, or the stairs, there’s no dearth of walls and space in the house that can be used as a canvas with these DIY craft and wall decor ideas DIY.

## Simple DIY wall decor ideas for even the least artistic!

Not too keen on undertaking advanced DIY projects such as cut canvas designs and bohemian macrame tapestries? No worries! Here are two simple DIY craft ideas for you.
Do you have any extra yarn or popsicle sticks lying around? If you haven’t been much of an upcycle-r, you probably don’t. But these can be found at local stores for pretty cheap, and this is what you can do with them! This will make your art and craft ideas for home decor brighter.
Bring out the collections
We all have an abundance of collections ranging from wedding china and beautiful fabric bits to curios and travel postcards. What if we brought them out of the attics and untouched shelves and hung them up on the wall?
Bring in nature
Another thing most of us have an abundance of is nature all around!
And there’s nothing more versatile and enchanting when it comes to making a DIY wall hanging craft than a rugged imperfect branch you can bring back home from the woods near you to add an unparalleled charm to your walls!

## Conclusion

If you’ve been feeling a little stuck with decorating your home, we’ve got the creative ideas you need to make your house feel more like home. From DIY projects for every room in your house, we’ve got you covered. So whether you’re looking for some creative DIY home decor ideas for your bedroom, bathroom or kitchen, we’ve got ideas for you.
Every family has their own unique style, and your house should reflect that. Use these diy home decor ideas to create the perfect space for you and your family. Are you ready to try your hand at a few of these simple and easy DIY home decor and craft ideas?
