
# 5 Essential Blogging Tools Every Blogger Needs to Know

Do you ever feel like your blog needs a little help? Maybe it&#39;s time for an intervention? Well, no matter if you&#39;re a beginner or a seasoned pro, there are going to be times when your blog isn&#39;t working the way it should. Maybe you need help with something specific, or maybe you just want to make your life easier.

When it comes to running a successful blog, there are a ton of little things you can do to make sure it&#39;s profitable and optimized. From outsourcing some of the heavier lifts to finding the best tools for your blog, there are plenty of things you can do to make sure your blog is a success.

In this article, we&#39;ll be discussing the best tools for running a blog that makes the most out of your time. From social media management to optimization services, there are plenty of tools out there to make sure your blog is running as smoothly as possible. In this article, we&#39;ll be discussing the top 13 tools for your blog that make the most out of your time.

## 5 best blogging tools to make your life easier

### Blogger

As the original content management system (CMS) for bloggers, there&#39;s no denying that Blogger is a great tool for starting a blog. It&#39;s free and easy to set up, allowing you to create a professional-looking blog in just a few minutes.

Furthermore, blogger comes with plenty of helpful features for blog starters, including:

Multiple blogging platforms with diverse features: You can set up your blog on both WordPress and blogger.com.

Easy management of your blogs: Add, edit, and delete posts, assign categories and tags, and delete blog history with a few clicks.

Built-in SEO: Engagement and backlink analysis let you see which posts are getting the most attention on Google, as well as how your blog is performing compared to other blogs in your niche.

A fully-featured blog editor: [Easily create and edit blog posts](https://blog.writesonic.com/how-to-write-a-blog-post-fast/?utm_source=blog-post&amp;utm_medium=blog&amp;utm_campaign=13-essential-blogging-tools-every-blogger-needs-to-know) with the powerful blog editor, which comes with an integrated word cloud, image generator, and more.

### WordPress

Over the last decade, [WordPress](https://wordpress.org/) has become synonymous with blogging. It&#39;s easy to see why:

WordPress is free and easy to use, with a huge ecosystem of plugins, themes, and services to help make your blog stand out from the crowd.

Beyond blogging, you can use WordPress to power your entire digital presence. With powerful SEO and Conversion optimization tools, you can create a professional website, mobile app, and more— all within WordPress.

### Hubspot

When it comes to [growing a business through content](https://blog.writesonic.com/how-to-create-a-content-plan-that-drives-traffic-and-leads/?utm_source=blog-post&amp;utm_medium=blog&amp;utm_campaign=13-essential-blogging-tools-every-blogger-needs-to-know)— be it through blogging or any other form of digital media — there&#39;s only one name that comes to mind: [Hubspot](https://www.hubspot.com/).

If you&#39;re marketing your blog the old-fashioned way, through paid ads, then you&#39;re likely wasting your time. With so many other marketing channels being offered free or for a small price, it makes much more sense to leverage your blog&#39;s natural authority and reach. Hubspot&#39;s blog growth software helps you do exactly that.

With their incredible software, you can easily create and manage multiple blogs on multiple platforms, including WordPress and blogger. And with tools like lead scoring, you can easily see which blog topics are driving business and leads for your clients or employees. It has everything you need to create engaging content and boost your inbound marketing efforts. You can create lead magnets, create and schedule lead-capturing emails, create high-quality content, and much more.

Beyond that, you can easily create and manage podcasts, videos, and webinars, as well as develop a fully-functional marketing team that can support your business through every stage of growth.

### Google Analytics

For years, Google has been a staple of the blogging industry, providing an excellent platform for content marketers. As part of the Google ecosystem, Google Analytics is excellent for tracking pageviews, visits, and conversions for your blog.

A blog is a website, and like any website, it&#39;s important to understand how people are interacting with it. Visitors to your website are going to leave behind some data. When you&#39;re running a blog, that data is extremely valuable. Luckily, Google Analytics makes it super easy to understand how people are interacting with your blog. All you have to do is add your site to your Google Analytics account, and you&#39;re set.

For example, you can see for yourself how many people are visiting your blog, how long they&#39;re staying, what their top search terms are, and more. This data allows you to see what content is performing well, what type of topics are getting more interest, and more. This data can also help you see what types of posts people aren&#39;t clicking on as much, which can help you determine if you should continue to focus on that type of content or try a different approach.

And the best part? You can use Google&#39;s powerful formula to see which posts are getting the most attention on your blog and use that data to create better content moving forward. Once you have a better idea of where your readers are coming from, you can better plan out your blog and increase its open rate.

### Google Adwords

If you&#39;re looking to advertise your blog, Google Adwords is one of the best tools available. There are a ton of different options when it comes to advertising your blog with Google, and we&#39;ve covered some of them in detail in this blog post.

For the most bang for your buck, we recommend starting with Google Adwords. AdWords allows you to advertise on Google search results pages, which means potential visitors to your blog will see your ads when they&#39;re looking for answers. You can choose between two different ad types: text ads and image ads.

For text ads, you can choose between up to 6 different ad formats, including an ad format that automatically changes words based on what people are searching for. For image ads, you can choose between up to 11 different ad formats, including an ad format that automatically creates an image ad based on the person&#39;s geographic location.

## Conclusion

Blogging is an essential part of any digital marketing strategy. It allows you to create content and share your voice with the world. The best bloggers are those who can find their own voice and create content that is relevant to their audience.

Though blogging can seem like a daunting task when you&#39;re just getting started, it doesn&#39;t have to be. With a little bit of effort and the right tools, you can make your blogging experience much easier and more effective.

If you are a blogger, these are the tools that you should try out to make your life easier and grow your blog. From free tools to paid services, these tools will save you time and money. Plus, you can choose it according to your budget. So, get ready to take your blogging to the next level by putting these tools to use.

Want to automate your blog writing process? Try [Article Writer 3.0](https://writesonic.com/ai-article-writer-generator?utm_source=blog-post&amp;utm_medium=blog&amp;utm_campaign=13-essential-blogging-tools-every-blogger-needs-to-know) now!
