# How Long Does It Take to Write a Blog Post? Not Long With This Secret

Every expert out there is talking about publishing as many blogs as possible. And they're all right. Blogging has brought phenomenal success to countless businesses and entrepreneurs. So why not? But, the real question here revolves around commitment ー Commitment of time!
Blogging isn’t just about writing some paragraphs on a topic. A blog requires in-depth research, great articulation, and endless editing. Moreover, different kinds of blogs may take different amounts of time to write. Some may get finished earlier than expected, and others could take days.
If you've been asking yourself, "How long will it take me to write a blog post?" for a while now, we understand where you're coming from. To aid you and every other blogger on the internet, we've created a detailed guide that follows all the steps of a blog writing process focused on how much time each step will take. Read on to know more about what studies say and how much time you need to commit to writing one excellent piece of content. And a helpful tip towards the end to increase the speed of your blog writing process.

## Brainstorming

Before you start writing, think about what you want to say. The more valuable your content is, the better your chances are of ranking well in search engine results. And the more readers engage with it, the more likely they'll share it on social media.
Brainstorming allows people to think more freely, without fear of judgment. Brainstorming encourages open and ongoing collaboration to solve problems and generate innovative ideas. Brainstorming helps you generate a large number of ideas quickly, which can be refined and merged to create the ideal solution.
Brainstorming means deciding the topic, your unique angle, and conducting initial research around it. You can create a strong foundation for your blog post with solid research and brainstorming. Spending about 30-45 minutes doing direct and indirect research can help you gain enough insights. Look at some similar blogs online and identify the information gaps you can fill in with your blog.

## SEO Strategizing & creating outline

It's no secret what SEO can do for your blog, and without it, your blog is just a piece of information on the internet waiting to be found. A good blog strategy involves spending at least 15-20 minutes researching keywords and figuring out which ones will perform best. Bloggers usually spend a reasonable amount of time strategizing their SEO. Well, who doesn't want to rank on the first page of search engines?!
Also, Creating a proper structure for your post is no doubt a necessity. After all, you can't build up a writing piece without the pillars to support it. Writing a blog outline is more than just “planning.” It's the practice of developing an idea and creating flow logically, organized, and persuasively. Not only does that help you save a lot of time when it comes to writing the post, but you produce them with better quality.
Crafting a flow, jotting down sections, assigning H tags, and positioning keywords can take another 20-30 minutes of your time on average. This phase also involves deciding the type of blog post you want to write.

## First draft

The first draft of any blog post is the most difficult to write, and this step takes a massive part of your time. Given there are no distractions, it can take around 3-4 hours to write. The first draft consists of a lot of information. One basically dumps all their research and opinions in this first piece.
Its purpose is to help you get the information out in a loosely structured way and to write your ideas down before you go back and fill in with more details later. A rough draft is an important step of the writing process, and can aid you in visualizing your blog post as a whole.
Starting with the introduction, you can use the blog outline you've set earlier as a roadmap and go further, filling in content in every section and subsection. The time you spend writing the first draft can increase or decrease based on the length of your writing piece. Make sure the keywords you include relate directly to your business and the post's content — don't just stuff them in there! Block a slot for writing your first draft. Make sure there are no distractions. You can also keep your phone out of sight for better focus.

## Editing

There's always a difference between what you intended to write and what you actually ended up writing in your first draft. Editing makes sure to eliminate that difference.
Writing and editing are two different things. Even though many people tend to confuse these two, they're not the same thing at all. Writing is the first step in the process of creating content for your blog posts, but editing is something that comes after writing has already taken place.
Just after you've finished writing the draft, re-reading it, figuring out what doesn't sound good, and correcting it can occupy about an hour or so of your time. Again, it depends on the length of your blog post as well. Tighten up the introduction, body, and conclusion. Make sure to weed out irrelevant information. You need to edit your blog post before you actually publish it. It's the only way to be sure that you're saying what you actually want to say.
If you think the editing process is solely about grammar, think again. Having an error-free article is critical, but a great editor can sharpen a decent blog into an effective blog by digging into the content.

## Creating images

Any good piece of writing is incomplete without matching graphics or pictures. Photos and illustrations make your blog post more appealing and help you get the message across. Especially when you share your post on social media, a nice image could increase your exposure enormously. Make sure to pick or create original images for blog posts, that make you stand out from all the others!
The most important reason to use images on a blog is because readers spend more time on pages with visual content. If text doesn't immediately grab a reader as they start to skim, they'll often navigate away from your page.
Nowadays, most of us can't imagine publishing a new post without any images in it. Certainly, from an SEO perspective, the text in your blog will always play an important part. But the use of images will help your post attract more attention on Facebook, Twitter and even Google.
Designing images that properly align with what your blog post is saying can take 30-45 minutes on average. This time can increase or decrease based on the number of images you're planning to include or the type of blog post you're writing.

## Formatting, Grammar and plagiarism check

Formatting makes your blog eye-friendly, thus increasing its readability. Formatting your blog well is important for directing readers through your content, while also making it as easy as possible for them to both scan and read it. Another big reason blog post structure and layout are so important is SEO (search engine optimization). Setting up your on-page SEO with the right formatting will help you rank for more keywords in Google.
It involves taking care of headlines, breaking paragraphs, positioning the designs accurately in the blog, including external and internal links, etc. This can occupy almost 30-45 minutes. So make sure you have an excellent blog format that humans and search engines love.
Here comes the critical part—checking if your writing stands up to the rules of grammar and plagiarism checking tools. The process may take roughly 20-45 minutes, depending on the length of your blog post and the edits you need to do after. This step helps you improve the quality of your writing and eliminates the chances of duplication in your text.

## The bottom line

There's a difference between writing something quickly and writing something well. A long blog post may take 3 hours to write. But a really good one can take twice as long. Because the value of a piece of content is in the quality, not the quantity, try to create content that teaches your readers something new or helps them somehow. Will your readers find value in what you're saying? Will they enjoy reading it? Never compromise on the quality!
We recommend starting slow and writing one post per week if you're just getting started with blogging. This gives you plenty of time to learn and build up your authority. Plus, you'll have more time to focus on creating quality content that engages readers.
You can write quickly and still produce high-quality content if you: Focus on one topic at a time. Do your research before you start writing. Outline your main points and arguments before you write your first sentence. Write in short paragraphs. Edit and proofread after you're done.
