# 5 Easy And Doable Tips To Increase Productivity At Work

The world of work has come a long way in the last year. And it feels nothing like what we’d expected.
No 9 to 5 workday, no desk in a tower—Today’s work culture has locked our personal and professional life under one roof. Companies that earlier couldn’t imagine adopting remote work are thriving under the new circumstances. Be it a small software company or a global market player, everyone today embraces processes and technologies to adopt the new work model permanently. There are, however, challenges that we must meet head-on to achieve a productive work culture outside conventional office space.
Disruptive communication
Technology hiccups
Constant distractions
General lack of motivation
Social isolation
And the worst of it all, the stress of an ‘always on’ work culture.
With remote work and WFH becoming business as usual, many employees are putting in longer hours and working harder than ever. Here are 5 tips to improve your productivity at work:

## Plan your day the night before

You never know how your day will turn out. But that should not stop you from planning for the worst. Sometimes you even try waking up early to list down the tasks that you want to finish that day. But then you get lazy, and all you want to do is lay down on the couch in the middle of the day.
That’s why it is advised to plan your day the night before. When you have your assignments, meetings, and commitments for the next day listed out, you wake up with a fresh mindset to give your day a great start. This planning will make you more productive and stop you from getting drained, and help one avoid having poor quality sleep.
Planning your day the night before is a great way to ensure some productivity.

## Assign your most productive hours to work

With the adoption of remote work, we have also created an ‘always on’ work culture. It sure offers a sound argument against the classic 9 to 5 work schedule, but its effects show that we need a new work schedule.
To make an ideal work schedule, you need to keep in mind that your energy and focus follow their life cycle during the day.
In an 8-hour work schedule, we’re only truly productive for around 2-3 hours. So we’re more focused and likely to get work done during this time without getting overwhelmed.
So, you have to figure out when you are in your best state of flow during the day. First, find out how you’re productive throughout the day and assign your most productive hours to work—using trending productivity apps. Doing so not only helps you find the right time to get work done, but it will also help you save yourself from getting overwhelmed or stressed from work.

## Do the most important thing first

Out of all the things you list in your to-do, only a few are truly important. So naturally, when it comes to starting your day, it’s better to first begin with the most important thing on your list. This is the most straightforward productivity tip, yet most people prefer not to do so.
There is a lot of confusion and misconception around the idea of getting more work done.
We often think that we should check off the maximum items from our to-do list to be productive in a day – wrong!
Productivity isn’t about how many tasks you mark complete in a day but about which tasks you complete and how much they contribute to your bottom line.

## Take regular brain breaks

Being too busy is a shared complaint among the modern workforce. It seems like we don’t know how to press the pause button.
Yes, we all have targets to achieve in a day, but there is no point in exhausting yourself by aiming to do everything in one go. It’s just not right.
Scheduling regular breaks into your working day is paradoxically related to the quality of work and your ability to be creative. If you’re not taking any break between tasks, then you’re probably not doing yourself any favors. What you’re doing is keeping yourself busy and staying stressed without any good reason.
So, for the love of your work and your health, take a break!
Take a quick walk in the park, have a snack, or sit idle and listen to your favorite playlist. And if not in the mood for doing anything, you can always take a quick nap.
Step 1: Pick a task from your task list
Step 2: Set a timer (25-40 mins)
Step 3: Work till the timer rings
Step 4: Take a short break (5-10 mins)
Repeat the steps four times or until the task gets completed. After that, take an extended break (15-30 mins) and follow the same process for other items on your list.

## Communicate with your team more often

Office or no office, team communication is always a key factor for productivity. But it’s not limited to just that.
Good communication and relationships between teams go a long way towards creating happier, less stressful, and more productive teams. You have to maintain basic communication etiquette among team members, whether they’re in-house or outsourced, and keep them on the same page.
Whether you collaborate on a problem-solving challenge or catch up for a virtual coffee break, keeping the conversations going within the group is a great way to relax and divert your energy from a tedious schedule.

## Conclusion

Even during our best times, it was challenging for people to balance work and life. Of course, things will be tenser with a crisis and a completely new work culture. But every new challenge is an opportunity in disguise.
In this particular case, the opportunity is to be more productive with improved work habits.
Yes, we know you’re missing going to the office—we do too. But working from home, when done the right way, has its perks. The tips and hacks we have provided here will empower you to balance your work and life better.
So, why the wait? Be as productive working remotely as you were working from the office, and more.
