# 6 Tips to Stay Motivated as a New Blogger and Not Give Up On Your Blog

You recently started a new blog and wrote a couple of posts in one go. It was going great and your excitement was at an all-time high until your blog came to an abrupt halt.
No ideas? No time? Other activities took priority? Or just life maybe?
Whatever be the case, truth is, your blog isn’t moving forward.
Sounds like you? Don’t worry, you’re not alone. Most new bloggers give up on their own blog because creating new content consistently is no easy feat.
You need to constantly look out for new ideas and find new ways to keep your readers coming back for more. Moreover, keeping your blog updated takes a lot of time and dedication.
How to Stay Motivated as a New Blogger and Keep Going?
Here are six useful tips to regain your motivation and not give up on your blog.

## Build a habit

The key to staying motivated to write is building a habit out of it. Why not create some writing rituals to develop a consistent writing habit?
Dedicate certain hours of the day to just brainstorming and writing blog content. Think of places where you can concentrate and write better. You can also head to a cafe or create a home office. When you make this a ritual, you’ll notice you’ll be writing better and more frequently.
Make sure you pencil this in your calendar and set daily reminders so you don’t miss out on it.

## Set actionable goals

To succeed as a blogger, you must set realistic and actionable goals.
Start with setting daily goals before you move towards larger goals. For example, your daily goal can be to write one blog post and planning and researching for the next two topics.
Your broader goal can be what one thing you want to do for your blog to take it to the next level? It can be sharing your posts on social media, getting a mentor to review your work, or optimizing your blog for SEO. Set actionable goals, deliver, and be accountable for it.
It’s important to remember that blogging is a slow and steady process. So, don’t get demotivated when you don’t see the number of readers flowing in. Just stay committed to growing your blog and you’ll see your efforts paying off soon.

## Network, Network, Network

No matter which profession you are in, networking always helps. This holds true for bloggers too. Blogging is a lonely profession and you need to interact with other bloggers for many reasons.
If you are a new blogger you can learn a lot from fellow bloggers through networking.
There are many online bloggers’ forums where you can become a member, share your work, receive honest reviews, and learn from others. There are plenty of online forums, Facebook and LinkedIn groups for bloggers that you can join and participate in.
Networking also comes into good use when you’re looking to create collaborative content in partnership with other bloggers and grow your readership in the process.

## Celebrate small wins

There are many instances when we’re too busy whining about what’s gone wrong rather than acknowledging what’s gone right. So, celebrate the small wins.
They will help you stay motivated especially during your initial phase of blogging. You might not be able to make monetary gain from your first few posts, but that shouldn’t stop you from marching forward.
Celebrate when you achieve your blogging milestones. For example, your first blog comment, the first note of appreciation, your first blog subscriber, and so on. Having a blogging journal is also a great idea to note down all your blogging milestones.

## Find a mentor or a blogging buddy

Having a mentor or a blogging buddy is helpful when you are just starting out as a blogger.
Reach out to seasoned bloggers who’ve been in the game longer than you and seek help. Blogging groups on social media platforms are the best place to find these mentors. A mentor can guide you, help you identify your challenges and show you how to overcome them.
Having a blogging buddy is also a good idea. A blogging buddy can be your friend or a peer who started his/her blogging journey with you. Since both of you are sailing in the same boat, it is easy to exchange ideas, discuss challenges, and overcome them together. Having a blogging buddy can help you stay focused and motivated.

## Take a break

At the end of the day, blogging is a creative process. Don’t stress yourself if your ideas are not flowing and if you feel stuck.
There will be times when you feel like you’ve hit a rock. At such times, instead of being too hard on yourself, just take a break and focus on your well-being. Give your time to relax and unwind before you can come back to it with a fresher headspace and (hopefully) ideas you can bring to fruition.

## Conclusion

Blogging requires immense patience, determination, and creativity. It might seem like a cakewalk but it really isn’t.
In order to grow your blog, you need to stay committed to creating engaging content on a consistent basis. It’s a good idea to develop an editorial calendar so you can plan your content well in advance and work towards publishing articles.
When you’re consistent, motivated and charged up, you will start seeing the results. So, follow these six tips and regain your motivation to kickstart your blogging journey.
