# 8 Most Beautiful Wedding Destinations in the World

So you’ve made it past the awkward first date, meeting the parents and the nerve-wracking proposal. Your future husband or wife has said ‘yes’ and all that’s left to organize is the wedding. While this may seem like a small final detail, planning a wedding, and more importantly, choosing a wedding location, is no easy feat.
To ensure your special day aligns with the fairytale future in front of you, here is a list of the most beautiful destination wedding locations in the world.

## Santorini

For a destination that matches seamlessly with any bride’s beautiful white dress, the Greek island of Santorini lies in wait. Here, whitewashed houses cling to the breathtaking cliffs, while their famous cobalt blue roofs match the endless expanse of the glittering ocean below. Turn up the heat with a ceremony on one of the island’s volcanic sand beaches while a fiery copper sunset creates a truly unforgettable wedding moment. For something different, head to the mesmerizing black sand beaches of the island’s East coast or the red sand beach of the South.

## Fiji

Walk down an aisle of soft white sand to the rhythm of cascading crystal blue waves with a tropical Fijian wedding. With more than 3000 islands making up this archipelago in the South Pacific, you’ll be spoilt for choice when it comes to selecting the perfect island for your special day. In this tropical oasis, palm trees line the beaches, and vibrant coral reefs lie in wait to be explored. If you and your future Mr. or Mrs. dream of an exotic, beachside wedding, this is one destination that the two of you will love.

## Tuscany

At the heart of Italy lies the beautiful region of Tuscany. A leading bucket list destination thanks to its history, culture, and romance, Tuscany’s capital Florence is home to some of the world’s most famous art and architecture. Just a short drive out of this awe-inspiring city lies the rolling Tuscan hills. With endless fields of stunning vineyards, this charming Italian destination will transport your guests to a world of tranquillity and romance. With fantasy sunsets that belong in an art gallery, a wedding in Tuscany is an incredible way to start your new life together.

## Rome

Set a precedent for a marriage that will stand the test of time in a city that has done so for millennia. For centuries, world travelers have ventured to Rome to discover the city that has been transformed by many of history’s most significant figures, including Julius Caesar and creative geniuses Leonardo Da Vinci, Michelangelo, and Raphael. Create your own moment of history by escorting your guests and future husband or wife to this timeless city. With stunning sights, including the Trevi Fountain, Colosseum, and Spanish Steps, hiding around every corner, a wedding in Rome will be nothing short of incredible.

## Spain

If you’re seeking a unique wedding destination, Spain has something for everyone. For lovers of art and architecture, the city of Barcelona is a hub of modernism and surrealism, hosting work by Salvadore Dali, Antoni Gaudi, and Pablo Picasso. If regal, manicured gardens, provincial palaces, and a thriving city are more your style, then Madrid is the destination for you. Finally, for those who venture to Southern Spain, there are the beautiful, Moorish-influenced cities of Granada, Seville, and Malaga, which are each uniquely reminiscent of fairytales. Once you’ve selected which magical city will host your special day, simply enroll in some salsa lessons to add a fun Spanish flair to your reception.

## Paris

In France’s capital city, romance lingers in the air. Paris has always been synonymous with love, making it a leading destination for fiances seeking to create an unforgettable wedding. Boasting artistic and architectural wonders, lush gardens and, of course, the Eiffel Tower, finding the perfect place to host your wedding in this charming city presents no challenges. Whether you opt for a daylight ceremony in the gardens or a night-time event as the city lights up and the Eiffel Tower shines, Paris is a timeless, classic wedding backdrop.

## Sri Lanka

For a wedding surrounded by a kaleidoscope of exotic, vibrant colors, pack your suitcase for the island nation of Sri Lanka. Located in the Indian Ocean, the diverse landscapes of this stunning country have something for everyone. From rainforests where elephants roam free to endless sunset bathed beaches or timeless Buddhist ruins, a wedding in Sri Lanka will be nothing short of magical. Amidst this array of wildlife, ancient temples, and the sparkling ocean, you can additionally sample some of the country’s irresistible cuisine. As a result, if you’re looking for a unique wedding experience, this is a standout option on our list.

## Amalfi Coast

If your wedding dreams consist of sparkling turquoise waters, sheer cliffs adorned with vibrant lemons and exotic flowers, and a perfect summer’s day, make your way to the Amalfi Coast. The playground of the rich and famous, this 50km stretch of Southern Italy’s coastline offers picture-perfect views from every angle. Whether you select Positano, Praiano, Capri or Amalfi from the coast’s seemingly endless line of glittering islands, you’re in store for an unforgettable experience. Spend your special day exchanging vows by the sea before dining on a meal of fresh seafood and drinking Amalfi’s famous Limoncello.

## Conclusion

Have you ever wondered where you should get married? The first step is to pick your dream destination. Once you have that sorted out, you can research your options and make a decision based on your budget, the type of destination wedding you want, and the time of year you want to get married.

Well, weddings are a once-in-a-lifetime event, and picking the perfect destination to celebrate your love is an important part of the planning process. Whether you want a destination wedding or to stay at home, there are endless options. These are the most beautiful places in the world to tie the knot.
