# Top 5 Destinations for an International Summer Holiday

This summer, don’t just Google for the top destinations for an international summer holiday but pack your bags and leave for one. It’s time you pack your bags and leave to a far-off place that does not offer you heat and humidity but pleasant mornings, lush green orchards to spend your evenings, a casual café for you afternoons or even a hill station with perfect panoramic views of snow-capped peaks. Here’s the list of some of the top destinations for an international summer holiday.

## Switzerland

Why Should You Visit Switzerland?
If we are talking about the top destinations for an international summer holiday, how can we not start the list with Switzerland? The fondues, Swiss chocolates and most importantly the Swiss Alps, you are in for a perfect summer vacation this year. Switzerland offers one of the most perfect weather conditions for an Indian traveller and arrives as an ideal host to your travel goals.
What are the Best Places to visit in Switzerland?
You have the incredibly photogenic Lake Geneva, where you can indulge in some paddle boarding, the Rhine Falls, where you can experience the roar of the gigantic waterfalls up close and personal with the cruise boats and ferries, explore a range of castles, or just hop into the Bernia Express. One of the most fascinating aspects of the Bernia Express is its speed.
What to Eat?
If you are a couple who loves to know a little more about your wine and preferences, you can always book a visit to a vineyard, where you can get firsthand information on how your favourite wines are made.

## Bhutan

Why Visit Bhutan?
If your summer is all about your intentions to be happy, we recommend the world’s happiest country – Bhutan. Bhutan is the perfect neighbour for the summer and that brings Bhutan to our list of top destinations for an international summer holiday. Bhutan is such a beautiful place probably because of the sense of mysticism that fills the air there.
What are the Places to See in Bhutan?
So when you are here, you can Trek to the Tiger Hill (for which we recommend you be a little fit) to catch the monastery nestled at the edge of a cliff Phuentsholing, the neatly organized border town of Bhutan
Visit Thimpu and Punakha
And finish your trip with Paro.
You can indulge in activities like river rafting, bungee jumping, monastery hopping, trekking, hiking, or participate in yogic healing or spiritual awakening sessions.
What to Eat?
One of the top destinations for an international summer holiday, Bhutan is ideal for both vegetarians and non-vegetarians. When here, you should definitely try out ema datshi (an everyday food), kewa datshi, shamu datshi, shakam paa, sikam paa, goep and more.

## Hamburg, Germany

Why You Should Visit Germany?
With photogenic places aplenty and perfect weather conditions, Hamburg in Germany is an ideal vacation spot for all kinds of tourists. Rated as one of the top destinations for an international summer holiday, Hamburg is also known as the gateway to the world because of its prominence as an international trading port.
What are the Places to See in Hamburg?
Apart from the Port of Hamburg, where you must visit as part of your summer getaway, some of the other places you should head to in Hamburg include St. Michael’s Church, Miniature Wunderland, Kunshtalle Hamburg – a world-renowned art gallery – International Maritime Museum, the picturesque Great Lakes and more.
What to Eat in Hamburg?
Mashed potato is one of the all-time favourites and a crowd puller here. Apart from it, you should try out
Schnitzel
Sauerbraten
Pretzel
Rouladen
Potato salad

## Iceland – One of the best place for an international summer holiday

Image Source
Why You Should Visit Iceland?
Raw, wild, uncaged and filled with a myriad of terrains and ecosystems like steaming volcanos, gushing fishing areas, canyons, vodka bars, and natural hot water springs, this island in Scandinavia is nothing less than a landmass straight out of a fantasy novel. All these come together to make Iceland one of the top destinations for an international summer holiday.
What are the Places to visit in Iceland?
You can visit the Blue Lagoon – the country’s most popular tourist location to start your Iceland tour. Once here, you would know why this is one of the top destinations for an international summer holiday. You can also head next to the idyllic Gullfoss Waterfall that cascades through a scenic landscape to give you a true view of the Icelandic landscape.
What to Eat in Iceland?
For the ambitious souls out there, you can try out fermented sharks or hakarl when you are in this top destination for an international summer holiday. You can also eat Brennivin, hot spring rye bread, svio or sheep’s head, harofiskur or dried fish and more.

## Bali

This is one of the top destinations for an international summer holiday that is quite close to home. Name a setting or an activity that you would like to see or indulge in and you would find it in Bali. From volcanoes, coral reefs, or mountains to temples, you will find them all.
What are the Places to Visit in Bali?
When in Bali, you can indulge in water sports like jet skis, banana boats, scuba diving, snorkelling, go on hiking or trekking tours to the mountains, spend time with yourself with yoga retreats or just enjoy your solivagance by the beach.
Bali is also home to world-renowned temples – many of mythological origins – and forests. The place is also famous for the idyllic views of the sunset. Apart from the places of attractions, Bali is also a place you can shop till you drop and expect an exhilarating nightlife.
What to Eat in Bali?
Try your hands on nasi goreng, nasi cumpur, gado gado, sate lilit, lawar and more.

## Conclusion

Choosing the perfect location for a summer vacation can be difficult. With so many destinations to choose from, it’s difficult to know where to start. To make it easier, we’ve put together a list of five of the most popular destinations for the perfect summer holiday.
