# 10 Best Amusement Parks in the World

Whether you're a thrill-seeking solo traveler looking for the world's most intense roller coasters or a family planning a magical vacation filled with fun for parents and kids alike, theme parks have something for everyone. From historic European destinations to record-setting parks in the Middle East, this list of the world's best amusement parks highlights some of the most beautiful, thrilling, and downright fun spots to visit across the globe. Disney and Universal dominate the list with their famous theme parks in the U.S. and abroad, but regional options in far-flung destinations offer unique experiences, rides, and themes that you won't find anywhere else.
Here are 10 of the best amusement parks in the world.

## Tokyo DisneySea, Japan

Tokyo Disney Resort tops the must-visit list for many Disney theme park fans. Tokyo Disneyland is very similar to Magic Kingdom in Florida or Disneyland Park in California, but Tokyo DisneySea is unique with its nautical theme, fantastical lands, and beautiful sections inspired by the Mediterranean, Arabian, and American coasts.

## Disneyland Park, United States

It's not an exaggeration to say that the 1955 opening of Disneyland Park in California forever impacted the tourism industry and American pop culture. The first theme park in the ever-expanding Disney empire (and the only one finished under the supervision of Walt Disney), Disneyland is still packed with nostalgia and history, with many opening day attractions still drawing crowds.

## Epcot, United States

Epcot, located at Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, is a permanent world's fair of sorts, celebrating human progress, technology, and international cultures. The front half of the park is made up of World Celebration, World Nature, and World Discovery, while the back half features 11 country pavilions located around World Showcase Lagoon. Like all Disney parks, Epcot has family-friendly attractions and character meet and greets, but it's especially fun for adult guests who love trying snacks, beer, wine, and cocktails from around the world in each country.

## Universal's Islands of Adventure, United States

The second theme park at Universal Orlando in Florida, Universal's Islands of Adventure has lands spanning a wide range of themes — from kid-friendly Dr. Seuss to popular Harry Potter. Park highlights include thrilling rides like Jurassic World VelociCoaster, Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, and Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, just to name a few, as well as the immersive The Wizarding World of Harry Potter — Hogsmeade.

## Disney's Animal Kingdom, United States

This Disney World destination is half zoo and half amusement park, wholly dedicated to animals — both real and fictional, living and extinct. The park has some of the best rides at Disney World, including Avatar Flight of Passage in the fantasy land of Pandora, thrilling Expedition Everest, and Kilimanjaro Safaris, which gives guests the opportunity to spot live animals, including elephants, giraffes, zebras, and more, from a safari truck. Diverse experiences for guests of all ages, educational exhibits, and beautifully themed lands make Animal Kingdom stand out.

## Europa-Park, Germany

Germany's largest theme park, Europa-Park, is exactly what it sounds like — a Europe-themed amusement park with more than 100 attractions and 18 themed areas, with 15 representing different countries and regions around Europe. Look out for some Disney inspiration throughout the park design and attractions (doesn't that geodesic dome look a little familiar?).

## Magic Kingdom, United States

Magic Kingdom is the most-visited theme park in the world, and right now, it's celebrating 50 years since opening as the first Disney World theme park in Florida. Its layout, themes, and attractions were based on Disneyland Park in California, but there are nuances that distinguish it, including the impressive Cinderella Castle that sits at the center of it all.

## Universal Studios Hollywood, United States

What started as a studio tour in 1915 has evolved into one of the world's most recognizable theme park companies. Universal Parks & Resorts now has several theme park resorts around the world, but Universal Studios Hollywood was first, and the studio tour lives on as one of its most iconic attractions.

## Everland Theme Park, South Korea

Everland, located in Yongin, is South Korea's largest amusement park, and it's home to a fun variety of themes, including Global Fair, Zootopia, European Adventure, Magic Land (best for kids), and American Adventure. The park also hosts a tulip festival filled with blooms each spring.

## Alton Towers Resort, England

Located in the Staffordshire countryside, Alton Towers was once a private estate with a history dating back hundreds of years. Guests can still explore the towers (now filled with attractions) and gardens, as well as experience thrilling coasters and delightful kids' rides, at this U.K. theme park.

## Conclusion

Amusement parks are all about family fun on a grand, oversized scale. From rollercoasters to water slides, amusement parks offer a variety of rides for families of all ages.
There are plenty of theme parks, water parks and rollercoasters to choose from, but these ten are the best of the best. So, if you're looking for a family-friendly destination with plenty of thrills and spills, then any one of these parks is ideal. Get ready for some fun this coming vacation.
