# 7 Most Beautiful & Best Places to Visit In Monsoon Across The World

Monsoon has its own charm and the beauty of nature during the monsoon is just unmatched. Most of the travelers won’t prefer traveling in monsoon but believe us friends, the lush green nature, the roaring waterfalls, the dancing streams, the foggy surroundings, and that provoking smell of the soil all drenched in rain – you gotta explore an all-new exquisiteness of nature if you travel during this time. There are some obvious benefits of traveling in monsoon as well. You get hotels at a very cheap rate and as the places are less crowded, you get to enjoy the beauty a little bit more. Here we’ve listed some of the best places to visit in monsoon which you need to hit if you are an avid traveler & want to explore the raw beauty of nature.
Most Beautiful & Best Places to Visit In Monsoon Across The World:

## India:

We had to give this country the first position on our list when we are discussing the best places to visit in monsoon. This south Asian country will offer you a plethora of beautiful destinations once you visit it in the monsoon. Here monsoon lasts from June to August and you need to head to the Valley of The Flowers, Uttarakhand during this season. This part of western Himalaya gets ornate with meadows of endemic Alpine flowers by this time and visiting that is no less than visiting the heaven’s garden.
If you are a seaside lover, go, visit Goa and enjoy some rich Goan delicacies while nature is all romantic with the drizzling rain. Visit South India to experience some truly wonderful roaring waterfalls and mystic dense forests or if you are among those adventure freaks, hit places like Leh-Ladakh or Spiti Valley and enjoy the best times of your life.

## Singapore:

This island country in Southeast Asia comes with two rainy seasons in a year and during the Southwest monsoon (from June to September) you need to come to this place to experience that misty dreamy nature. To top that, if you are a foodie or a shopaholic; monsoon in Singapore will be a dream come true for you as the Singapore Food Festival is held during this season to satisfy your taste buds and the Great Singapore Sale with its amazing and unbelievable discounted stuff will make you confused about what to buy and what not! This year, the sale has been started on June, 8 and will run till August, 12.

## Thailand:

Thailand’s monsoon is much more than just rains. Just like Singapore and India, Southwest monsoon is the most dominant monsoon in the country and how the entire country transforms to lush, lively green paradise from that old, lifeless land is just a lovely treat to the visitor’s eyes.
You get to enjoy a cooler weather during this season compared to the hot and humid tropical weather. You need to visit Koh Samui, Koh Tao, and Koh Phangan for the best ever experience and check out for amazing offers and deals on the hotel rates for availing a cheaper price.

## Japan:

It is evident by now that the Asian countries rule when it comes to discussing the best places to visit in monsoon. And again we have a drop-dead gorgeous entry here, Japan, the land of rising sun. The famous Hydrangea flower (Ajisai) blooms during this season that actually marks the advent of monsoon here and the much talked about, colorful Hydrangeas Festival is celebrated in Tokyo. There are beautiful gardens where you can enjoy the serene beauty of all bloomed colorful Ajisai and for the best experience, visit Hakusan Shrine, Tokyo.

## Mexico:

Now let’s travel to a different part of the world, a different continent altogether. Mexico, this North American country is a pure bliss to visit in the months of monsoon. Generally, monsoon runs from May or June to October in this country and a sudden heavy downpour with lightning and thunderstorm is very usual here.
You get to experience the rich greenery of the country and indulge in some really interesting outdoor activities during this season. Explore the caves and cenotes, go for some underwater activities or visit the museums. And your monsoon travel to Mexico is never complete without tasting some glasses of Mexican Spirits.

## Costa Rica:

This Central American country is a wild beauty during monsoon. Though most of the people will warn you not to visit this country during this time, as Central America is all about catastrophic rainfall, we will include this place in the list of best places to visit in monsoon for its richest green beauty and wildlife during this season. If you are a travel freak and want to stay amidst the endless green and some wonderful wildlife that includes the sea turtles; you need to come to Costa Rica during monsoon. Visit Tortuguero National Park to say hello to the green turtles which are listed as the endangered species.

## Philippines:

This Asian country certainly is one of the best places to visit in monsoon for its plenty of adventure options and water sports options during this time of the year. Go for surfing at the Siargao Island (world’s 9th best surfing destination) where the southwest monsoon wind brings about the best surfing waves or visit famous surfing spot Baler. If you are lucky enough you might get an invitation from a local people and might enjoy a savory Filipino meal. Enjoy swimming in the Hot Springs or go for a walk along the beach. Your monsoon travel is gonna be the most fulfilling travel experience ever.

## Conclusion

Monsoon traveling is actually not for the normal tourists, it requires your energy, patience to withstand the adversities of nature and lots of positivity of mind. While sitting back in the bed with some coffee and books is a good option in this season, you get an amazing reward of experiencing the raw beauty of nature if you travel during monsoon. So, get ready to choose your favorite from this list and enjoy the misty nature and greed splendor.
