# Face Care Routine For Oily Skin

Looking after oily skin is a challenge. Everyone wants to flaunt a fresh face all day long. An oily appearance can take away that freshness, as well as give you skin problems that seem to be never ending. It can clog your pores and can lead to acne problems, pimples and blackheads. But oily skin is not all bad.
Among all the drawbacks, you can also find a few blessings in disguise. If you have oily skin , it means that natural oils are found in abundance in your skin, something that most people don’t have! All you need is to follow a simple oily skin care routine to keep the greasiness in check. Let’s dive into the details:

## What is the Cause of Oily Skin?

Simply put, if you have oily skin, it is because your skin produces more oil than other skin types. Getting into details, the sebaceous glands in the skin secrete a substance called ‘sebum’ which is responsible for keeping the skin hydrated and healthy. In oily skin types, excess sebum is produced which causes the skin’s pores to get clogged, and could also lead to acne. A oily skin care routine followed religiously, would help keep the oil appearance in check, and leave your skin looking and feeling beautiful.

## Beauty Tips For Oily Skin Care

Tip #1. Wash your face twice a day
Yes, just twice a day. Washing your face more than twice would over dry the skin and prompt the sebaceous glands to produce more sebum, which will leave your face oilier. As part of your oily skin care routine, use foaming, or gel-based cleansers twice a day to clean accumulated dirt and excess oil. For the rest of the day, rinsing with lukewarm water is more than enough.
It’s important to carefully choose your skin care product. Select oil free face wash and soaps. Instead of commercial products that can rip off your skin’s natural oil, go with natural cleansers. Honey and lemon cleansers, rose water, neem, cucumber and turmeric cleansers are good for oily skin.
Tip #2. Use a toner
The golden rule regarding toner is this: use a toner after cleansing, before moisturising. Be it any skin type, dehydrated skin can look unhealthy and dull. Replenish it with toner. Alcohol free toners are the best to keep oily skin hydrated and help slow the aging process.
You can make a natural toner for oily skin using 2 parts apple cider vinegar mixed with 1 part water.
Tip #3. Scrub once a week
One of the best tricks to keep your skin less oily is to exfoliate once a week with a mild oily skin scrub. Exfoliating your skin part of your oily skin care routine keeps the excess oil in check, removes dead skin, and clears the pores, especially areas prone to whiteheads and blackheads, like the nose and chin area. Be sure to scrub your face gently and softly.
Tip #4. Apply a face pack on weekends
Applying face masks once a week can be very effective for oily skin. You can choose from wide variety of herbal face packs with organic extracts available in the market for oily skin.
Tip #5. Don’t Forget to Moisturise!
Yes, you have to moisturise oily skin too! Sounds contradictory, right? The truth is that with all the oil-reducing products and ingredients added to an oily skin care routine, your skin is bound to dry out. To keep things in balance, oily skin needs moisturising too.

## Easy Natural Face Masks for an Oily Skin Care Routine

These face masks are easy to make, and the ingredients are already lying in your kitchen. So, you shouldn’t be left with an excuse for not adding one or more of these face masks to a daily skin care routine for oily skin.
Banana Face Pack
Ripe banana is very effective in treating oily skin. Banana has great anti-aging properties that helps you get rid of dark spots and brightens your dull looking oily skin. Mash a ripe banana and add 2-3 drops of lemon juice to make a paste. Apply it on your face and let it dry. Then rinse your face with lukewarm water to feel the softness and freshness.
Aloe Vera Face Pack
Aloe vera is a great moisturizer for oily skin as it reduces acne and prevents clogging of pores. Aloe vera can be used for every skin type as it has anti-inflammatory properties that treat various skin problems. Aloe vera can be mixed with honey to make a face mask. Aloe vera face masks can do wonders to your oily skin
Gram Flour (Besan) and Curd Face Pack
It’s an age old recipe for treating extra shiny skin. Gram flour, or besan is anti-pimple, anti-aging tan removal agent that reduces the oiliness of skin. Besan mixed with curd paste when applied as a face mask can make your skin glow with more radiance and freshness.

## The Dos and Don’ts of a Oily Skin Care

There are many repeated questions about oily skin care and what routine to follow. We’ve answered some of those below:
Is it good or bad to have oily skin?
Natural oils are extremely important for our skin , and can keep our skin glowing and fresh . It’s when they are produced in excess, that they become a problem . Oily skin looks quite beautiful when managed properly.
How can I get rid of a oily face?
Cleanse, tone, and moisturise your face daily using products meant for oily skin. Exfoliate your face once a week and follow it up with a good skin blotting face pack. Sleep well and maintain a healthy diet. These are some things you can do to get combat oily skin.
What foods make your skin oily ?
Some foods that contribute to excessively oily skin and acne breakouts include dairy (milk, cheese etc.), refined flours (maida), butter, ghee, coffee, and too much of sugar. Try eating these food items in a healthy moderation if you have oily skin.

## Conclusion

However problematic and irritating it is, you have to work hard to protect your skin especially if it is the oily kinds! When it comes to oily skin, you’ve got to cleanse your face every day to keep it from getting greasy. You should also use a face wash that contains salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide. Using a scrub or mask once a week will help remove the oil from pores. You can also try changing your diet to include more fruits and vegetables, since they’re high in fiber and water, which can help regulate your natural oil production.
