# Daily Skin Care Routine For Oily Skin

Did you know that your skin is a source of natural oils? Yes, your skin has oil-producing glands known as sebaceous glands. The natural oils produced by these glands help keep moisture locked in and keep the skin hydrated.
When the sebaceous glands produce excess oil or sebum, it leads to oily skin. Oily skin can also result from several other factors beyond your control, such as genetics, humid weather, stress, and hormonal changes. Read on to learn more and find the perfect skincare routine for oily skin.
Highlights:
Skin Care Routine For Oily Skin
If you have oily skin, developing and sticking to a new skincare regimen that focuses on moisturizing your skin and keeping it hydrated will give you the best results.
Divide your daily skincare routine for oily skin into two parts - a morning and evening time skincare routine.
While a morning skincare routine ensures that your skin does not suffer damage from exposure to the sun and pollutants, an evening skincare routine can help reverse the damage that may have been caused to your skin during the day.

## Morning Skin Care Routine

Cleanser
Start your morning skincare routine with a gentle cleanser. A cleanser helps remove excess oil and impurities from your face and keeps your pores unclogged.
Cleansers come in all forms, so be sure to pick out one that is right for your skin type. Experts recommend picking a formula that can combat excess oil and balance your complexion if you have oily skin.
Certain fruit extracts such as grapefruit and papaya are known to be great to unclog your pores. You can use a foaming cleanser, focussing on your T-zone, where most of the excess oil build-up occurs.
Toner
Use a toner as the second step in your morning skincare routine. Using a toner can help unclog your pores, regulate your skin's pH levels, and create a layer of evenly toned skin.
Certain toners also help reduce the damage caused by UV rays, so they are a great addition to your morning skincare routine.
Pick a gentle toner formulated with ingredients such as rose, elderflower, lychee seed extract, aloe vera, eucalyptus, chamomile, almond oil, and honey.
Moisturizer
Just as you would moisturize dry skin, moisturizing oily skin is also essential. Moisturizing your skin can help reduce sebum production while improving its texture.
For oily skin, using a non-greasy moisturizer is ideal. Many oil-free moisturizers can provide the right amount of hydration without clogging up your pores.
A gel-based moisturizer that is oil-free and packed with the right natural extracts and acids can be a suitable pick for oily skin.
Sunscreen
Sunscreens also come in non-greasy formulas that are perfect for oily skin. Avoid using a sunscreen packed with heavy, oily ingredients as it could only end up harming your skin.
Choose a light formula that contains antioxidants and natural extracts, while offering ample protection against the sun's UV rays. It should not leave your skin feeling sticky throughout the day.
Zinc, vitamin C, fruit extracts, and caffeine are ingredients you should be looking for in a sunscreen if you have oily skin. Certain formulas that come in matte finish can also work as a good base for your makeup.

## Evening Skin Care Routine

Cleanser
While cleansers are excellent for removing your makeup at the end of a busy day, you should cleanse your face even if you don't wear makeup. Use a light water-based cleanser to eliminate excess oil and impurities, along with traces of makeup from your face.
Toner
Pick a toner that gives your skin the right amount of hydration. Ingredients such as alpha-hydroxy acids (AHAs) and beta hydroxy acids (BHAs) have proven to be effective in fighting acne and skin pigmentation.
White tea, rose, and witch hazel are known to treat acne. So if acne is your concern, go for a toner that has these ingredients.
If your concern is skin that is too oily and sticky, go for a non-greasy, light toner that will gently balance your skin's pH and retain just the right amount of moisture.
Moisturizer
It's necessary to moisturize your skin both in the morning and evening. Choose an oil-free, lightweight formula that easily absorbs into the skin.
Eye Cream
The skin around your eyes is particularly sensitive, which could lead to dark circles and puffy eyes. Look for ingredients such as caffeine in an eye cream as it can help calm the skin around your eyes.

## Weekly Routine

Exfoliate
Exfoliating your skin once every week can help eliminate impurities and build-up of dead skin cells, leaving your skin smooth.
Scrubs that contain menthol and eucalyptus are known to calm your skin and induce a cooling sensation. Make sure to pick one that is free of oil and alcohol, as these could lead to excess oil production and breakouts.
Use A Face Mask
Using a face mask once a week can help reduce the damage caused to your skin by regular exposure to pollutants. It also helps replenish your skin, leaving it soft and bright.

## Tips For Oily Skin

Look For Oil-Free Labels In Products : When you're picking out products, make sure they are oil-free and water-based. While picking a facial cleanser, choose one that is alcohol-free.
Moisturize : Moisturizing is important even when you have oily skin, so never miss this step in your morning and evening skincare routine.
Always Remove Your Makeup : Make it a rule to never go to sleep while wearing makeup. Doing so can lead to blackheads and acne, while significantly damaging your skin.
Wash Your Face : Wash your face in the morning, evenings, and after workouts or strenuous activities that make you sweat.
Try Blotting Papers : You can use blotting papers to absorb excess oil from your face when you're on the move.
Protect Your Skin : Remember to protect your skin from radical damage, so wear sunscreen when you step outside and shield your face with a hat or an umbrella.
Don't Over Exfoliate : Over exfoliating and scrubbing your skin too hard can strip it of its natural oils.
Check Expiration Dates : Give the expiration dates on your skincare products one more read. It's better to be safe than sorry.
Make Changes To Your Diet : Certain fruits rich in essential vitamins and minerals are also known to be useful in combating oily skin.

## Conclusion

Remember that oily skin is a common condition and can also occur due to reasons such as hormonal changes, genetics, over-washing, certain medications, and a poor diet. Building a skincare regimen with the right products can help you prevent and manage oily skin.
