# 9 Better Eating Habits For Healthier Skin

If you think with your stomach too then it's time to think healthier! The key to glowing, better skin lies on your plate and not on the label of some extravagant beauty product. Since lockdown has clearly messed up our daily routine, the famous proverb; You are what you eat is important now more than ever. Your eating habits, good, bad or demented will all be revealed by your skin sooner than later. A wholesome diet rich in antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, dietary fibres is the answer to all your skin problems.
Your skin is the largest organ in your body– it also accounts for about 16% of your body weight. The condition of your skin reflects on how healthy you are, which is why a healthier diet is so important. Eating the right foods can help improve your appearance, boost your immune system, and protect against disease. Here are 9 tips that can help you to get a healthier skin:

## 2 Eggs A Day, Everyday!

Crack-opened, boiled, half-fried or scrambled, eggs are a real storehouse of protein. What you didn't know is that it is also a good source of lutein which helps in keeping the skin hydrated and firm. Eggs even contain natural oils like amino acids that actually help in building collagen, a blessing for the skin. Put them in your everyday salad or just make a cup omelette!

## A Tried & Tested Morning Ritual

A spoonful of ghee should be the first thing you feed your body.
It should be followed by a lukewarm glass of water with 1/4 tablespoon turmeric and maybe a glass of natural aloe vera juice.
While ghee helps in the smooth digestion of other natural ingredients while water along with turmeric serves as an antiseptic, anti-inflammatory and astringent that prevents acne, pimples and black marks on the face. Stick to this routine for 6 weeks and you'll see guaranteed results.

## Daily Dose Of Vitamin C

The 'C' in vitamin C stands for clear skin! They are super antioxidants, immunity boosters and a real doctor for skin blemishes. Vitamins get their name from collagen, a natural protein found in our skin, nails and hair, which helps boost the red in our skin while keeping other infections and diseases at bay. Food items like broccoli, guavas, strawberries, papaya, orange, kiwi, lemon, sweet potato, etc. are all rich in vitamin C. Include them in your daily vegetable or fruit salads or even oatmeal and you'll be fine.

## Make A Rainbow Out Of Veggies

Vegetables are an excellent source of vitamins and minerals. They not only protect your skin from UV rays but also keeps it hydrated and damage-free. A bowl of veggies every day works like magic. Include fresh vegetables like tomatoes, bell peppers, broccoli, lettuce, avocados, carrots and all your favourite vegetables and you've got yourself a younger-looking skin in 6 to 8 weeks.
Side tip; drizzle olive oil in the salad for additional blood flow and flavour.
Maybe you'd like to find out how potatoes can also be used as a beauty product.

## Go Nuts

2 to 3 almonds in a day along with 5-6 walnuts should do the trick for your skin.
While almonds are a good source of vitamin E, they protect the skin from any damage and promote healthy skin-cell growth. On the other hand, walnuts are stacked with essential fatty acids such as omega-3, vitamin E and C, zinc, selenium and protein which prevents the sagging of your pretty skin and keep it plump and youthful. Add them in your salad, oats or make a sherbet, that's your call.

## Fish Is The Answer!

Salmons, sardines, cod or tunas, fishes are a reliable source of free fatty acids or omega-3 that helps build healthier skin cells in the body. They are also known to reduce inflammation which further prevents cell damages, flaking and dry skin. Have some in lunch or dinner for healthier skin.

## Dark Chocolates

Well, dark chocolates are known to improve blood flow and hydrate the body. It is practically harmless because there is no sugar in it. The cocoa in these chocolates is rich in antioxidants and flavonols that will not only protect your skin from sun damage but also help out with wrinkles, skin thickness and texture. Don't go overboard though.

## A Bowl Of Fruity Goodness

Fruits are stacked with vitamins, minerals, dietary fibres and yummy flavours. Adding fruits like kiwis, oranges, grapes, pomegranates will prevent microbial infections and also act as a natural source of vitamin C. Although don't miss out on other fruits like:
Strawberries - Major health booster
Papayas - Regulate blood pressure and improve bowel movement and digestion, making your body free of toxins
Watermelons - Excellent for hydration.

## Spice Of Life: Black Pepper

Spices are almost never good for skin but somehow black pepper is an exception. From adding flavours in your bland food to low-key, improving skin conditions - black pepper can do it all. The reason behind its second personality is the presence of antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant enzymes. Sprinkle it in your soups, stews, salads or take a quarter spoon in your ginger-lemon green tea, for better results.

## Conclusion

Eating well not only keeps your body healthy and strong, but it can also keep your skin looking great! A diet high in fruits and vegetables is a great way to get the nutrients you need for healthy skin. And the good news is that eating healthy does not have to be boring or time consuming or even expensive. In fact, you may find that it’s cheaper and easier to prepare your own food than ever before. Eating well doesn’t have to be a chore, so try these 9 better eating habits today!
