# An Introduction to Just-in-Time Manufacturing (JIT)

Just-in-Time manufacturing is a business methodology that is targeted towards minimizing lead times, inventory, and the costs associated with the production and storage of goods. JIT also helps companies uncover inefficiencies that are being masked with excess inventory.

All manufacturing organizations hope to contain the costs of production and get their products shipped as quickly as possible. There exist various methodologies have been developed to address these concerns. One of them is just-in-time.

Just-in-time manufacturing is a system that aims to reduce the time a product spends going through production and, at the same time, cut back the response time from suppliers. Controlling the variables is the key to holding down production costs while increasing productivity.

## What is Just-in-Time Manufacturing?

Similar to lean manufacturing, just-in-time manufacturing is designed to meet demand rather than create a surplus in anticipation of a future need. Its primary purpose is to eliminate the waste that comes from overproduction, waiting, and excess inventory. Let us take a look at these wastes in a bit more detail:

Overproduction is manufacturing products in advance of or more than the demand specifies. It’s considered to be the most severe of the wastes by proponents of just-in-time manufacturing because it squanders time, space, and money, all the while masking the other problems within a company’s processes.

Waiting to begin one process until another one finishes is ineffective and a colossal waste of time. The flow of all operations should be efficient and continuous. Some estimates claim that more than 90 percent of a product’s time in manufacturing is spent waiting.

Excess inventory typically means that a company has ordered more than the market demands or the demand falls dramatically after the inventory is ordered. Either way, it hurts business because it takes up space and must be managed. Companies often rid themselves of excess inventory by selling it at a reduced cost or tossing it out, either of which can lower profits significantly.

## When to use Just-in-Time

Just-in-Time manufacturing is the almost natural state of business for make-to-order manufacturers, e.g. if you engineer to order or run a small job shop. However, the idea is of JIT is to bring the advantages of those manufacturing modes to larger-scale manufacturing.

The core ideas of JIT in manufacturing are that on end, the materials for production should arrive exactly when production is scheduled to begin, and not any earlier. And on the other end, the manufactured products should be finished just about when they should be delivered to customers.

This means that JIT could be used best when the market demand for the products can be forecasted with high accuracy, demand is without sudden fluctuations, and when you have highly reliable vendors.

## Just-in-Time Manufacturing advantages

When companies put the proper time and effort into implementing a just-in-time manufacturing system, they can expect to see a sweeping impact on their productivity, risk management, and operating costs. Here are some of the benefits that JIT manufacturers worldwide are experiencing - Drastically reduced inventory levels, shorter lead times, lower labor costs, less space needed to operate, reduction in work-in-process inventory (WIP), improvements in quality (fewer defects), reduction in throughput times, fewer standard hours, and increased number of shipments.

The inventory reduction brought on by JIT could also unveil an array of problems and inefficiencies that were previously masked with high inventory levels. These may include frequent breakdowns, long set-ups, ineffective scheduling, skills shortage, etc.

## Just-in-Time Manufacturing risks

For the most part, businesses that employ just-in-time manufacturing practices will see lower inventory levels, reduced cycle times, faster times to market, and reduced operating costs. But there are risks, especially for smaller companies. One supplier that experiences a breakdown and can’t deliver the materials that a company needs can disrupt or shut down the entire production process.

Additionally, a customer’s orders for products could exceed the company’s forecasted expectations, which could delay the shipment of finished goods to several customers.

To have the best chance of success with just-in-time, it’s critical that companies find suppliers that are either located close by or can supply materials quickly and with little advanced notice. It’s also important that these suppliers waive any minimum order requirements that could hurt smaller businesses, which typically purchase smaller quantities of materials.

## JIT implementation requirements

Just-in-time manufacturing leans heavily on supplier relationships, communication, standardization, and continuous improvement. That is why some businesses, especially smaller ones, often struggle with implementing the system.

1. Strong supplier relationships - For one, larger companies have an advantage over SMEs due to their sheer size – as they make up a large portion of a supplier’s business, they easily achieve priority status. And when issues occur in the supply chain, smaller clients are neglected in favor of the larger ones. With just-in-time manufacturing, however, this kind of disruption could derail the whole operation as the business is depending on their suppliers and not keeping any safety stock. That is why strong supplier relationships are key to just-in-time manufacturing. Another way to mitigate this problem would be to select suppliers that are physically close to your facility.

2. Effective internal communication - Internal communication could prove to be an issue as well. When information pertaining to the operation is siloed, i.e. every department has separate data systems, communication suffers. That in turn slows down the whole operation, causes data inaccuracies, and could have a significant effect on the bottom line of the company. For just-in-time manufacturing to work, a customer order should reach the planning department just as the sales representative enters it into their system. And that requires a centralized data system such as an ERP/MRP system.

3. Standardized processes - Having standard procedures in place for every operation ensures that the outcomes are reliably predictable. That includes how long the procedure should take and what quality items it should produce. When a deviation from the norm is detected, measures can be taken to identify the cause of the inconsistency.

## Key takeaway

Just-in-time manufacturing is a system that aims to reduce the time a product spends going through production, cut back the response time from suppliers, and eliminate the waste that comes from overproduction, waiting, and excess inventory.

As opposed to traditional forms of manufacturing, just-in-time manufacturing orders smaller quantities of raw materials more frequently, just as they are needed for short-term production, and finished goods are delivered promptly. That way, inventory is kept at a minimum.

JIT could be used best when the market demand for the products can be forecasted with high accuracy, demand is without sudden fluctuations, and when you have highly reliable vendors.

For just-in-time manufacturing to work, a company has to have strong supplier relationships, effective internal communication, standardized processes, small lots, efficient workflows, and the capacity for backward scheduling.
