# 8 Reasons Why Every Business Needs a Strong Website
Websites have become something of a check-box item for businesses of all kinds and sizes these days. Business plan? Check. Logo? Check. Website? Check. So now your business is good to go, right? Well… yes and no.
Having a business is an essential marketing tool for any business, big or small, local or online, and across just about every sector. However, it is not enough to have just any website. In order to make sure that your site does everything it can and should do to support your business, you need a strong, effective and engaging website.
Here are 8 good reasons why your business needs a strong website.
## 1. Consumers Live and Breathe Online
We truly are living in an online age. According to a report, people are spending an average of 6 hours and 49 minutes online each day. The figures are significantly higher in certain countries: Indians spend 7 hours and 47 minutes online daily, Brazilians 9 hours 29 minutes and Filipinos a staggering 10 hours.
Not only this, but consumers are increasingly relying on the internet for products and services: they are shopping online more and, most critically, they are searching for businesses online. When people want to find a new product, service or business, whether a local, long-distance or purely digital product, they overwhelmingly turn to Google. One study found that 97% of consumers reported having searched for a product or service online at least once in the last 12 months.
Put simply, customers are looking for businesses online, so if you want them to find you, you’d better have an online presence. Furthermore, you need your online presence to be as strong as it can be in order to capture as many of these potential customers as possible. A strong online presence at its core means having a great website that will convert visitors to customers, and a way to drive those visitors to your site in the first place.
## 2. Your Site is Your Online Business Card
Remember the days when salespeople and business owners would always carry a stack of business cards around with them and hand them to everyone they met? Probably not – but trust us, this used to be a key sale and marketing tool. 
In fact, your website, if you use it the right way, can be more than just a business card. It can be your brochure, your portfolio, your catalog, and more. This is why having a strong website is imperative. If you choose to have a very basic site with minimal information, if you skimp on the design, or if you choose to keep using an old website long past its use-by-date, you are doing your business a disservice and missing out on many valuable opportunities. 
Your website should be visually appealing, impactful, engaging, user-friendly and encourage visitors to spend time exploring the site. It should also strongly represent your brand. 
The layout, format, the information you include and the volume of information you should have on your site will vary depending on your business. However, at a minimum, your site should include at least an overview of the products you sell or the service you offer, a basic introduction to who you are as a business, and information about how customers can get in touch with you.
## 3. A Good Website Can Build Customer Relationships
Customer relationships matter, and building and strengthening these are one of the best things you can do to ensure the long term success of your business. Securing returning customers makes an overwhelming business sense: it takes a much lower investment to get a repeat sale from a previous customer than to find new customers. Therefore, it is critical that you hold on to the customers you have and encourage them to continue to buy your products and services.
Your site can be a very effective way to do this. When used well, a website is a great tool for building relationships with your customers. Having strong customer relationships will make it more likely for those people to continue to be your customers. For example, you can publish a regular blog on your site. If you make your blog informative, insightful, and deeply useful to your customers, they will regularly read your posts. In time, they will come to rely on the information you provide, greatly strengthening your relationship with them.
## 4. Strong Websites Have Great ROI
Compared to many other expenses in your marketing budget, and business expenses in general, building a website has a low price tag. However, a strong site will deliver much in terms of leads, sales, and profits, meaning this has represented a phenomenal ROI. The cost of building a website will vary greatly depending on your designer, as well as the size and type of site you want, but in all cases is quite reasonable considering the returns it yields.
These costs are even more reasonable if you decide to build your website yourself. The best website builders let you build a professional website that drives traffic to your site and converts them to customers, even if you’re not an experienced web developer. There are a large number of website builders currently available, meaning it can be hard to know which one to use.
## 5. Your Site Tells People Who You Are
This applies not just to your customers, but to anyone in your network: suppliers, competitors, and others in the business community. A good website will represent your brand, and showcase this to your customers and other site visitors.
It is important that your website is carefully designed to reflect your brand because this is the first impression people will receive your business once they find you online. If you fail to this well, it could be the last and only impression they get! Before building or commissioning your site, make sure you have a clearly defined marketing strategy that lays out your brand values and attributes. Next, consider how these elements should be reflected on your site and make sure they are implemented in every aspect.
## 6. It is a Springboard for Other Marketing Tactics
As we’ve covered, a strong website is a valuable and useful marketing tool. However, it is not just a marketing tactic in itself: it can also be used as a springboard to launch other marketing tactics. You can use your site to link to and promote your social media accounts, for example, helping to give these platforms more exposure and get more value from them. Easy ways to do this include linking to your social media on your site, as well as displaying a feed of recent social media posts on your website.
Your site is also an essential tool to support email marketing efforts, which are set to become a key marketing strategy in 2020. Visitors to your site are one of your best resources in terms of growing your mailing list, which you can easily facilitate with a signup box or pop up on your website. Your site can also host your podcasts, videos, and other powerful content.
## Summary
Your website is an essential aspect of your business, and it is important to make sure it is strong and effective. A great website will help you to capture potential customers, build customer relationships, and promote your brand. Additionally, a strong website can be used as a springboard for other marketing tactics.
