# 6 Types Of Freelance Clients To Avoid
Time is of the essence when you’re freelancing. Anything that interferes with your time can have a devastating impact on your productivity and your earnings alike. This means having the courage to turn down opportunities is just as important as taking on new ones, regardless of how difficult it can be to do so.
The difficulty to reject opportunities usually stems from the reward involved. Money should never be the basis of why you take on new clients lest you become exposed to the devourer of freelancers. Bad clients. They can smell desperation.
A bad client is one that makes you pay for your own services: they interfere with your time and are emotionally expensive. This doesn't mean they are bad people — maybe their weak point is collaborating with freelancers. Identifying them beforehand can be tricky but knowing the red flags to look out for could reduce the impact they have on you in the long run.
#1 The unresponsive client
Unresponsive clients usually start off responsive then become unresponsive mid-way through a project. Handle this situation with care. You don’t know why they are not responding: maybe they are on leave, an emergency could have come up, or maybe they are just busy. You don’t know. The best you could do is follow up at regular intervals until a certain point at which you must terminate the agreement.
The client who’s unresponsive before the work has begun is one to completely avoid.
Good communication is the hallmark of any fruitful relationship. While it’s important you understand that a client may not be available to you 24/7, it’s also important you look out for yourself. Your day shouldn’t be spent worrying if someone is ever going to get back to you. Bad communication, in the beginning, is usually a precursor for what’s yet to come. You’re better off avoiding it.
#2 The client that wants unlimited revisions
Freelancers charge for their services. If you’re charging $500 for a task, it’s because that’s what you believe your services are worth. This fee should take into account various things such as the benefits you miss out on for not being an employee, your experience, the extra time you may need to make revisions to the project, etc. Make all of this clear when you’re onboarding a new client.
It does not mean that all revisions are unnecessary or extra, freelancers can make mistakes — none of us are perfect. It doesn’t matter how much experience you have, sometimes you may need to make revisions to ensure the task meets the client's expectations. Where it becomes a problem is when the client is constantly adding revision after revision, beyond the agreed fee dedicated to revisions.
You must be clear on what the client should expect during the negotiation phase. If they breach what you’ve stated after the contract is signed then you have every right to bill them for the extra work. Most clients would appreciate this but if they don’t then cut ties.
#3 The client who pays late
You and your client should have expectations of one another. They should expect you to deliver work on time, to a certain standard. You should expect to be paid and on time. Consequences should exist for anyone who doesn’t meet expectations.
It’s hard to know whether a client will pay late beforehand unless they have a term in the contract that states the payment date is some time in the distant future.
If you think a client may be late with their payments, take partial payment before starting the project — make them put some skin in the game. What you should never do is accept to work for a client that asks for a “free sample” or some other type of free work before they can agree to pay you.
Good clients respect your time. Bad clients require a constant reminder about due payments. 
#4 The micromanaging client
Nobody has the right to dictate how you spend your time when you’re freelancing — it’s part of the beauty of being a freelancer. But there are clients that overstep this line. It’s usually the ones who don’t respect the difference between an employee and a freelancer.
The only one who could determine how long a deliverable would take is you: the client's role is to decide whether your timeline is acceptable for their project.
You may encounter clients who have some experience in the field or have done some project management at some point in their life. These clients often have a preconceived notion of how long a task takes. If they are imposing this on you, walk away from the opportunity.
“It’s a really simple project, it should take about three hours.” Nah. The project should take as long as you believe it would take and if the client can’t budge on that, say sorry and walk away. All these types of clients are trying to do is prime you into accepting a lowered rate.
#5 The “trust me” client
We’ve all heard the saying “never trust someone who tells you to trust them,” right? The easiest way around this quote is to refrain from saying “trust me.” Bad clients know this trick.
“We’re a startup so we haven’t got contracts for our freelancers just yet.”
You should never begin work for a client without having the requirements such as the details of the deliverable, cost of deliverable, date of deadline, due date of payment, amount to be paid, and mode of payment hashed out and written on paper. Even an email is suitable.
When a client is reluctant to sign a contract or make a written declaration of some form to state what is involved in your agreement, assume they don’t want to be accountable and take that as a red flag. Cut ties.
#6 The unrealistic client
This client engulfs multiple types of clients. They may expect you to work on an extremely low budget with tight deadlines but still want you to deliver a high standard of work. It all comes back to knowing the difference between a freelancer and an employee.
Nobody should be paid badly for the work they do, no matter if you freelance or work for an employer. But when you freelance, nobody has the right to put pressure on you outside of what has been agreed in the contract. When this starts to happen, begin by kindly reminding them of the agreed terms. If it persists, cut ties.
## The Bottom Line
Freelancing can be a great way to make money, but it's important to be careful about the clients you work with. Avoid clients who are unresponsive, who want unlimited revisions, who pay late, who micromanage, who can't agree to written terms, and who are unrealistic. These clients can be a major distraction and can significantly reduce your income.
