# How Blockchain and IoT Are Opening New Capabilities in the Construction Industry
When combined, Blockchain and IoT have the potential to reshape the construction industry and drive it towards effectiveness, accountability and transparency.
IoT is enabling the digitalization of assets and processes in the construction industry at a fast pace. Construction projects are generally complex and involve a lot of regulations and standards. There are issues with trust and verification that compliant work has been carried out, and there’s also no standard method for communication between parties. As a result, the industry now has increasing amounts of fragmented repositories of data in addition to a growing list of intermediaries. Construction companies should leverage the combination of blockchain and IoT to increase transparency in cost, time and scope of projects. This article lists the possible use cases of blockchain and IoT in the construction industry.
## Blockchain Basics
In simple terms, a blockchain is a database architecture technology implemented as a decentralized, distributed and public digital ledger that’s used to record transactions across many decentralized computers. A record cannot be altered retroactively without the alteration of all subsequent blocks and the consensus of the network. This allows the participants to verify and audit transactions inexpensively and create trust and transparency, and it eliminates paper and duplicate effort.
There are different approaches to implement blockchain technologies. While they might have the same general functions, different blockchain platforms have different security and technology risks, and organizations need to evaluate the various solutions across their lifecycle to make sure it fits their particular needs and risk appetite.
## Decentralized Network Management
For blockchain to be successfully applied, it needs to be working with “digitally native” assets, meaning assets that can be successfully represented in a digital format. IoT and other tools enable the digitization of non-digital assets. Given the proliferation of IoT devices in the construction industry, blockchain-type technology can form the backbone of a decentralized network of IoT devices. In these cases, a blockchain would serve as a public ledger for a massive amount of devices, which would no longer need a central hub to mediate communication between them.
## Streamline Financing and Payments
On a construction project, a contractor may request an advance payment to help them meet significant start-up or procurement costs that may have to be incurred before construction begins. In these instances, the client should require an advanced payment bond to secure the payment against default by the contractor. Blockchain technology could eliminate the paper trail and significantly reduce the duration of document circulation, from more than a dozen days to less than 24 hours.
Late payments and their related cash flow issues have been enduring problems in the construction industry. One of the most applicable uses of blockchain in the construction industry is to embed a blockchain-based platform into the project execution practice, which can initiate payments based on digitally approved work, contractual terms and smart contract actions.
## Compliance Simplification
Providing proof of compliance (taxes, NECs, professional registrations, etc) is often difficult, time-consuming and costly. Putting proof-related information on the blockchain would significantly lower the costs and administrative burden, as well as generally help increase the accessibility of information during bidding and project implementation. Further, tying blockchain technology to emerging technologies such as AI and IoT can enable real-time data gathering and processing to improve overall compliance. Together with the project information logged on the blockchain, regulatory compliance can be easily demonstrated.
## Provenance and Traceability
Sustainability issues make customers demand proof of the legitimacy and authenticity of products. Tracking goods and assets through the supply chain has become an important way to improve operational impact. Knowing the full journey of a product comes with several benefits like improved product safety, a reduction in fraud and increased accuracy in forecasting and collaborative planning within the industry. If a company’s supply chain breaks down or delivers a final product that’s faulty, that impacts the company financially.
Asset provenance is a critical aspect of quality assurance and quality control. It’s achieved through data drawn from IoT devices, different suppliers and their systems using API integrations. Provenance for structural materials and the creation of a verified chain of custody ensures transparency for all parties in the supply chain and improves the construction sector’s score on sustainability. Trustworthy suppliers with high-quality products can be recognized and incentivized to maintain quality certificates, thereby establishing long-term relationships.
## Smart Contracts
A smart contract is essentially a computer code that can self-execute as well as self-enforce the terms and conditions laid out in a legal agreement. For example, if the contractor has reached an agreed stage in building a structure, then he requests for inspection. If the authority responsible for inspecting the work approves, then the contractor gets paid.
If contractual terms and conditions are precisely registered on a smart contract, the execution and monitoring of conditions are highly accurate.
Every payment, transaction, business interaction and execution can be registered on the blockchain, making the whole process transparent and traceable.
Significant cost savings can be reached on overheads, administration and project control. Moreover, project procurement information is logged in a traceable way unlocking project evaluation and cost optimization insights.
A contractual collaboration that’s supported and automated with smart contracts can decrease significantly the number of claims and disputes, thereby improving stakeholder relationships.
IoT sensors can serve as a closed data source for smart contracts, eliminating potential human errors e.g. an access control system used to log in workers onsite, measuring weather conditions, GPS of structural elements, RFID of delivered supplies, etc.
## BIM and Onsite Asset Tracking
Construction brings together large teams to design and shape the built environment. With technology and, in particular, IoT and Building Information Modeling (BIM) becoming more widespread, openness to collaboration and new ideas is increasing across the industry. This momentum could be leveraged to bring the use of Blockchain technology to the fore. BIM is a computer model that holds a wide array of information about the asset such as the 3D geometry, construction management information like time schedules and costs or operation and maintenance metrics. BIM and blockchain technology can be combined to serve as a single source of truth.
BIM technology works as a single source of truth for data while putting the audit trail of design approvals, data verification and project management decisions on a blockchain would result in a combined source of truth that covers all aspects of the project.
BIM can combine information from the blockchain, such as supply chain information, the provenance of materials, payment details, etc. particularly during construction. It can also assign information to the blockchain, like design decisions, source of data or model modification orders. This information can later be used by smart contracts to initiate further action, such as payments or material orders.
Blockchain, IoT and BIM provide a foundation that leads to Digital Twin and Smart Asset Management as projects don’t stop at the delivery of the asset but transform and continue until the end of the lifecycle of the structure.
## Conclusion
Construction is a highly regulated industry that employs a wide variety of players for often complex projects. Validating their identities, their quality of work, and their dependability can be difficult and time-consuming. A blockchain-based ecosystem could help solve this challenge by making it simpler for general contractors to verify identities and track progress across multiple teams. Blockchain technology could also help ensure construction materials are sourced from the right places and are of the appropriate quality, while smart contracts may make it simpler to automatically issue timely payments linked to project milestones.
The full value of blockchain may be realized through the collaboration of different parties within the construction industry. Therefore, it’s advantageous to share best practices and implementation experiences through partnerships and common pilot projects.
