# Prototyping: Everything Entrepreneurs Need to Know
As the old saying goes, practice makes perfect. Even the most successful entrepreneurs can miss the mark, and even the most brilliant ideas may need help in execution.
Enter prototyping. This experimental process is a key cog in getting your business idea off the ground. After all, whether you’re designing new software, services, or a physical product, you have to know if it’s going to work.
Prototyping can help you test out your ideas, catch issues before they cost time and money, and provide a framework for iterating more quickly on your new designs and features throughout your business’s life cycle.
## What is prototyping?
A prototype is an early mock-up or model of your product that tests out your ideas and see how viable they are. This might also be referred to as beta testing, sampling, or building a minimum viable product (MVP).
Prototyping is a really important part of the initial product concepting process. It enables you to test out your product before you actually make it to scale. It’s not about getting it to work so much as giving you something to collect data with.
It’s the equivalent of your first draft: not meant for publication, but a sketch of your visions in one place.
## Types of Prototyping
Physical prototyping: Creating a mock-up of your product to understand dimensions, buttons, features, or design so you can see what it looks like in real life. This could be a quick 3D printout, simplified model, or a single sample from a supplier. This is not usually functional, but you can get a sense of size, materials, and how it appears.
Design (UX/UI) or visual prototyping: On a software level, mapping out the usability — how a person moves through the software step by step — within a dashboard, website, or marketing campaign, so you can collect feedback from users and teammates on logic, intended functionality, and overall design. This often takes the format of a sketch, either within a software tool, PowerPoint, or simply on paper. You can’t interact with any features, but the prototype represents how it would work in different contexts and what it looks like.
Technical or functional prototyping: Determining the viability of a given code solution by mocking up the back end of a product, such as figuring out if 2 data systems can talk to one another, testing out an ordering system, or fine-tuning AI to match phrases or data points. This is meant as an engineering test to ensure you can actually follow through on your idea.
## Why build a prototype?
Before you jump straight into building a prototype, though, you want to make sure you understand why you’re prototyping in the first place. There are 2 main reasons to prototype: testing a hypothesis or telling a story. Both tie back to building a feedback loop, whether it’s from teammates, sponsors, or potential investors.
You may not need to create a full prototype every time you release a new feature. Once your business is up and running, you could test changes in real time through on-site experiments (for example, putting different buttons on separate batches of shirts) instead of going through rounds of mock-ups.
You want to make sure you’re balancing the time it takes your team to build a prototype — especially if you’re thinking about more time-intensive work like coded or technical prototypes, or using prototypes that have significant upfront costs. Prototyping allows you to test out new ideas and experiment with new materials. You might have an idea in your head of what it might look like, but until you try it, you won’t know if it actually works.
What prototyping does is give you a way to gather feedback and make course corrections before you’ve invested too much time, money, or cash into a given feature or idea. With prototyping, you can also understand potential go-to-market issues upfront, such as cost, time for development, or materials.
The more high stakes your product, the more important this feedback is to get it right. If you’re building a lifesaving medical device, you’re going to want to do much more thorough rounds of prototyping and testing before submitting for federal approval than your classic software platform, where you can get more real-time assessment from the market.
## Best tools for physical prototypes
If you’re working with a physical product, 3D printing and CAD services like Autodesk or Mako can quickly help you mock up the product so that you can see what it feels like to use it in real life.
The only downside of this is that a mock-up doesn’t use the same materials you’ll use in your finished product, so if you want to test out certain fabrics, finishes, or other design elements, you’ll need to add that into your process.
If you’re designing for retail or ecommerce, services like Placeit can create mock-ups that allow you to see, for example, how T-shirt designs actually appear on a model (or on a friend). If cost isn’t an issue, you can also try ordering a few samples of your product to test fit, finish, and wear and tear.
## Best tools for digital prototypes
If your idea exists solely in the digital realm, you can iterate a lot faster, testing out multiple designs at the same time. One great tool for building mock-ups of your software is Figma, which can help you plot out the user experience from start to finish:
This doesn’t require any code but allows you to see how your design looks and whether it meets the requirements you set out at the beginning, as well as solicit basic feedback like its ease of use. Most UX/UI designers are familiar with Figma or other tools and can mock up designs in a few days.
If you decide you need to go one step further and do a coded or technical prototype, you’ll need to hire a development team or engineer, or use a no-code or low-code proxy tool like Proto.io or Principle. You may want to look into code accelerators and shortcuts for code-based prototypes.
Keep in mind that you won’t be able to jump right into production from a prototype like this — creating a quick model that is designed to be used for one person at a time is completely different, coding-wise, from a full-blown product. That’s why it’s critical to know exactly what you want to test, and whether you need to put in the engineering effort as opposed to creating a more visual, low-fidelity prototype in Figma.
## Going from prototyping to the real thing
It can be tempting to say, “Great. My prototype works exactly as planned. Let’s ship it!”
But remember, your prototype isn’t a final sample. You’ve likely used shortcuts on materials, code, and functionality.
When you’re building a prototype, you make completely different choices.For example, engineers think about concurrency or scalability. There’s a reason Facebook doesn’t break even when millions of users are on the platform every day. That’s not something you think about with a prototype.
Once you’ve adjusted your designs based on feedback, it’s time to build your product for real — from scratch. Your prototype is built for speed and testing, and you never want to build your customer-facing software on top of the prototype. It sounds counterintuitive, but sometimes you need to take a step back in order to move forward; ultimately it saves you so much time.


