# Why Is Financial Literacy So Important?
We all know that money doesn't grow on trees, but for many people, that's as much financial knowledge as they have. A recent study showed that two-thirds of Americans could not pass a basic financial literacy test. That's a scary statistic, because financial literacy is so important.
Financial literacy is the ability to understand financial concepts and make informed financial decisions. It's not just about being able to read a balance sheet or understand the implications of compound interest; it's about being able to manage your money responsibly and plan for your future
These are some of the benefits that come from improving your financial understanding and literacy, and why you should acknowledge your current savings habits to work towards a more secure future. 


## Save For Retirement
So many people end up using their savings before they get the chance to retire, or reach retirement age. This can be due to a number of things, but one of the main reasons is poor financial planning and habits. Make sure that you investigate your current monthly expenses to see what you can cut back on.
Ensure that you are putting away a small amount each month if possible so that you have a higher amount saved for your retirement. Getting on top of your financial situation and improving your financial literacy is essential for you to increase your retirement savings.
Regardless of your age, you must have enough money in the right place that you can fall back on when needed. This includes medication, surgeries, and other things that will make your retirement a little more pricey. Ensure that you have prioritized saving for your retirement if you are closer to retirement age.
## Avoid Debt
Another significant reason why you should improve your financial literacy is so that you can get a better understanding of your current income and allow for essential debt repayments. If you currently have a loan that needs to be repaid, or if you have a history of debt, then it could be worth changing your financial habits in order to avoid debt.
Try to change your priorities and consider implementing a stricter budget so that you do not fall into similar habits that are potentially damaging to your account and credit rating. Creating better savings habits can allow you to repay your debt, or make space in your monthly budget for debt repayments.
This can prevent additional damage caused by debt collectors, credit agencies, and a harmful impact on your credit score overall that will impact your financial future.
If you struggle to repay debt, it can also lead to stress and anxiety. This can be a huge drain on your mental and emotional health, and it can also interfere with your work or school life.
## More Confidence And Independence
Something that will come to anyone who works on the budget and financial literacy is an increased sense of independence and confidence. This is because you will be more aware of your current spending habits, and have the opportunity to reshape your budget and monthly outgoings.
It could be worth taking a different approach to your finances so that you feel as if you have more control over your spending and have found the best deal with utilities and other regular bills. This can allow you to feel more confident and even treat yourself to something nice every so often.
This can be an important part of somebody’s journey to financial literacy if you have a lower average income and find yourself regularly asking for help. Making sure that you know all the facts and how a range of things work within the financial world can allow you to be wiser with your money and save a small amount each month.
Knowing that you can support yourself if you need it can make you feel more independent and assured that you do not need to rely on anybody else in an urgent situation.
## Financial Security
Part of the confidence that comes from improving your financial literacy stems from financial security. This can allow you to make bolder decisions and have a lot more clarity with your purchases in the future. Ensuring that you have a small amount of money saved over time can provide you with additional security.
If you are interested in saving for a large purchase, have a baby on the way, or if you find yourself unemployed temporarily, a savings account or investment is a great thing to lean on when it is needed.
Avoid asking loved ones for money as this can have a toll on your relationship with them over time, so it is worth putting a little money away when you have it that you can fall back on when it is needed.
Another way to make sure you have financial security is to have insurance. This could be health insurance, car insurance, or home insurance. If something unexpected happens, you will be glad you have this coverage. It can help you to avoid financial ruin if something were to happen.
## Credit Improvement For The Future
Finally, it is worth making sure that you work on your finances so that you can improve your credit score. This is a three-digit number that banks and credit unions use to assess how likely you are to repay them over time. Whether you want a loan, or financing options for larger purchases including house mortgages, vehicle financing, or a vacation paid in installments, your credit score can determine how flexible the corresponding institutions will be.
Make sure that you are creating better habits for the future so that your credit score will be higher. This can allow you more flexibility with the amount borrowed, repayment periods, and even achieve lower interest rates.
In some cases, this can be the difference between a smaller home and your dream location or building. Try to take better care of your finances now, so that you have additional security for the future. Higher credit scores can open all kinds of doors for you, so it is definitely worth maintaining it if possible.
## Summary
A great benefit of improving your financial literacy is that you can start to save for the future. Even if you don't have a lot of money saved up, every little bit counts and can add up over time. Another benefit is that you can begin to budget for regular bills and utilities that are necessary. This can help you stay on track and avoid falling behind on payments. Finally, by understanding your financial situation better, you can identify any areas of weakness and take steps to address them. There are really no good excuses for not learning about money. Financial literacy is one of the most important skills you can have, and it's something that everyone can learn.


